
  Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, it is my honor to recognize a wonderful 
organization in my district that this year is celebrating its 20th 
Anniversary, the Community Resource Center located in Mamaroneck, New 
York.
  The mission of CRC is today more important than ever. Formerly the 
Hispanic Resource Center, it is a 501(c)(3) community-based 
organization founded in 1998 to promote the cultural, economic, 
educational and professional integration of immigrants to the already 
established larger community. It is also dedicated to advocating for 
those in need. CRC aims to provide the tools to prepare new immigrant 
families to become self-sufficient and active members of the community.
  Over its 20 years in existence, CRC has grown from a community 
initiative designed and acting as a clearinghouse of information and 
referral services, to an organization that provides comprehensive 
direct client services and programs. The Center provides a host of 
educational programs, case management and referral services and 
advocate for immigrants and low-income families in need. In the past 
year, the Center served nearly 4,000 adults, youth, and children in 
three primary areas: Case management and social services; Educational 
programs and workshops; and Worker Center-job placement for men and 
women seeking employment. The Center understands that the Westchester 
community is strengthened by cultural and economic diversity, and the 
work they do in support of that cannot be overstated.
  Mr. Speaker, the America I know welcomes all immigrants and isn't 
afraid to lend a helping hand to those in need. I am proud to represent 
an organization like Community Resource Center that provides that 
loving hand every single day. Congratulations to the entire CRC team on 
20 wonderful years serving the community, and here's to many more.
                          




  Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, it is an honor for me to recognize a dear 
friend, Jerry Friedman, who this year is celebrating his remarkable 
90th birthday in addition to his 63rd wedding anniversary to his 
wonderful wife, Lillian.
  Lillian and Jerry were married in the Bronx on December 10th, 1955. 
Together they have two children, Lynn and Stuart, who were both born 
while the couple lived in Brooklyn, and now 2 grandchildren, Sophie and 
Ben. In 1971, the Friedman family moved to Co-op City, which is where 
Pat and I met them as members of the Co-op City Democratic Club. We 
have been close ever since.
  Jerry was a very active member on the Riverbay Board for many years, 
and at one point served as Vice President for three terms. He was also 
instrumental in the rent strike, acting as an advocate for residents. 
When I first ran for State Assembly, Jerry and Lillian were two of my 
earliest supporters. I'll never forget the faith they placed in me.
  Outside of his activism, Jerry is a wonderful amateur photographer 
whose pictures have hung in the Riverdale Y and other local spots. He 
was also very active in the Boy Scouts and over the years rose to their 
highest office.
  In addition, Jerry served on the Board of Visitors at Bronx 
Psychiatric Center, which provides a continuum of inpatient, outpatient 
and related psychiatric services with inpatient hospitalization at the 
main campus.
  Mr. Speaker, I have long cherished my friendship with Jerry Friedman 
and I count myself incredibly fortunate to have known him for so many 
years. He is a terrific individual who has done so much to help 
strengthen our community here in the Bronx, and I am honored to be able 
to recognize him on this wonderful occasion. Congratulations to Jerry 
on an incredible 90 years.
                          




  Mr. BRADY of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I have the opportunity to 
inform colleagues that Mr. Matthew Pinkus, our Committee senior policy 
adviser and parliamentarian to House Administration Committee 
Democrats, retired recently, concluding a congressional staff career 
which began as an intern in 1971 and included 19 years on our 
committee, the longest of the more than twenty different congressional 
professional positions he had held during that period, including time 
as chief legislative assistant to Rep. Michael Barnes (D) of Maryland 
for the congressman's entire tenure in the House.
  Whether working in House leadership, on five different congressional 
committees and in Members' offices, Matt excelled in a huge variety of 
tasks. A summer college job as a congressional intern in the House for 
Rep. Benjamin Rosenthal of New York while attending Brandeis University 
prompted Matt to leave graduate school at U.C. Berkeley after receiving 
an M.A. in political science and work in Washington full time, first at 
Congressional Quarterly, then for a month in the Senate, and then the 
remaining decades in the House. He said of that path, ``I decided very 
early on that, as much as possible, I would do things the way I wanted 
and try to have fun. Usually, that worked.''
  Matt had an eclectic career path since his first full-time job here 
in 1976, when he left a political reporting job at Congressional 
Quarterly. He often chose to seek work in specific subject areas which 
interested him, rather than follow the common alternate staff career 
path of attaching himself to one or two members and remaining in place. 
He was first appointed to the Committee on House Administration 
Democratic staff in 1991 by Rep. Sam Gejdenson of Connecticut to work 
on campaign finance reform, and then moved on to the Brookings 
Institution as a guest scholar on their ``Renewing Congress'' project 
before returning to the House in 1995 to work on oversight of the 
executive branch at the Committee on Government Reform. Between Hill 
jobs in the 1990s, Matt had finished writing a book for Congressional 
Quarterly in 1998, How Congress Works, and was ready to once again 
return to the House. Then-House Administration Ranking Member Gejdenson 
asked him to work on election contests, and he remained here to work 
sequentially for Ranking Members Hoyer, Larson and Chairwoman 
Millender-McDonald.
  Matt was probably best known on the Hill as one of the top experts on 
rules and process, serving on the Rules Committee staff and twice on 
the Subcommittee on Rules of the House, including as subcommittee staff 
director. His most distinctive job was as parliamentarian of the House 
Democratic Caucus for six years, which recognized and utilized his vast 
knowledge of the Caucus rules. It was a position created especially for 
him and lasted through the service of Chairmen Robert Menendez, Jim 
Clyburn, Rahm Emanuel and John Larson--all while he also worked 
simultaneously on the House Administration Committee. He was known for 
always being carefully prepared, totally candid, and was not 
intimidated by Members.
  Matt was always our committee parliamentarian, managed floor 
operations, and worked on elections legislation, congressional 
continuity issues, and the Smithsonian Institution. He drafted and 
edited views on committee reports and other publications, and proofed 
specialized historical books published by the House. He would discuss 
parliamentary strategy in the morning and then make an oversight visit 
to the National Zoo to learn about artificial insemination of Giant 
Pandas in the afternoon, something made possible by CHA's very eclectic 
jurisdiction.
  Matt sat behind me for years on the Committee on House Administration 
dais when I was a junior member and helped provide advice on hearings 
and markups for Members but when I suddenly became chairman in 2007 
following the death of Chairwoman Millender-McDonald, he was there with 
an intricately drafted manager's parliamentary script for my very long 
first markup. This was a totally new role for me. When I went off 
script at some points and noticed Matt's look of concern, after 
avoiding disaster, I told him that
while I might sometimes deviate from his text, he should just keep 
right on doing what he does.
  Matt says he plans to travel, look for opportunities to write, and 
again take up playing chess, which he learned at the age of four from 
his father, AI, who was one of America's leading players in the mid-
20th century.
                          




  Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to celebrate one of the great 
religious institutions in my district, the Lincoln Park Jewish Center 
located in Yonkers. This year, the Center is celebrating its remarkable 
80th Anniversary and I would like to take the opportunity to recognize 
that feat in Congress.
  Lincoln Park Jewish Center is an inclusive, modern Orthodox Jewish 
congregation that strives to create spiritual growth through prayer, 
acceptance, community and fellowship. To achieve this goal, the 
synagogue supports the following: HaMakom Tefilah, a place to increase 
spirituality with heartfelt prayer by encouraging personal growth 
through participation, self-reflection, and spontaneity; HaMakom Ahavat 
Chinam, unconditional love and acceptance, regardless of background or 
current level of observance; HaMakom Limud Torah, a place to search and 
study Torah leading to a more fulfilling Jewish life; and HaMakom 
Simcha, a place to enjoy and celebrate.
  The congregation at Lincoln Park Jewish Center is currently led by 
Rabbi Levi Welton, who was ordained by the prestigious Machon Ariel 
Institute of Jerusalem in 2005 and has since then served congregations 
in Australia, San Francisco, and, of course, Yonkers New York. His 
pastoral experiences include young professional development, inter-
faith work, community building and multimedia production. Additionally, 
Rabbi Welton is the Founder of the Torah Values Network, a staff writer 
for New York Jewish Life Magazine, and a Captain in the United States 
Air Force.
  The Lincoln Park Jewish Center has provided incredible support to its 
congregants and the community for 80 years now. Here's to 80 more. 
Congratulations to Rabbi Welton and the entire Lincoln Park Jewish 
Center family on this great occasion.
                          




  Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor a dedicated public 
servant in the Yonkers community, Dr. Andrea Coddett, who this year has 
been named ``Woman of the Year 2018'' by the Luther V. Garrison Sr. 
Masonic Foundation Inc.
  Dr. Coddett is the Deputy Superintendent for the Yonkers Public 
Schools. In her role, she oversees the Division of Teaching and 
Learning, ensuring that all curriculum is aligned to the New York State 
Learning Standards and that all instruction is aligned to 21st Century 
learning skills, so students are prepared for college and or careers. 
As the Chairperson of the Yonkers Basics Advisory Board, Dr. Coddett 
leads a team of approximately 40 volunteer members from various 
community sectors charged with saturating the community with five 
research-based interactive pillars proven effective in redressing 
cognitive and social-emotional inequities due to poverty.
  Dr. Coddett began her career in education as a Special Education 
teacher after which she became a building-level Math Specialist. In her 
administrative career, Dr. Coddett has worked as a District Math 
Specialist PreK-12, an Early Childhood Principal, a K-5 principal, a 
Director of Secondary Special Education and an Assistant Superintendent 
for Instruction K-12.
  Dr. Coddett is a graduate of Fordham University where she earned a 
doctorate in Executive Leadership. She holds Masters Degrees in 
Curriculum and Instruction with a Reading specialization and 
Educational Administration from Pace University and a Bachelor degree 
in Psychology from Mercy College. Dr. Coddett also holds administrative 
certifications in School District Administration and School Building 
Administration and Supervision, as well as teaching certifications in 
Special Education, birth through 21, and General Education, N-6. Dr. 
Coddett continues to influence school transformation and policy 
decisions by serving on Carnegie Foundation's national Improvement 
Leadership Education and Development (iLEAD) steering committee with 
university and school-based educators committed to integrating 
improvement science principles into leadership development and 
educational practice.
  Having lived in and been educated in four different countries on 
three different continents, Dr. Coddett considers herself a global 
citizen. It is her contention that as an educational leader, she is one 
of the gate-keepers of tomorrow and believes that each and every child 
deserves an excellent education. As a former classroom teacher myself, 
I happen to agree wholeheartedly. Dr. Coddett has achieved a great deal 
and is well deserving of this honor. Congratulations to her on 
receiving this wonderful recognition.
                          




  Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor the largest co-
operative housing development in the nation and a place that holds a 
particularly meaningful place in my heart, Co-op City in the Bronx. 
This year, Co-op City celebrates its 50th Anniversary and as such 
stands as one of the great housing successes in our country's history.
  Co-op City is a New York State Mitchell-Lama housing cooperative with 
apartments in high-rise and townhouse buildings. There are three 
shopping centers on Co-op City property, 8 parking garages, 
professional offices and a complete educational park.
  Construction of Co-op City began in 1966 on a site that was formerly 
home to an amusement park at which I used to work as a young man called 
``Freedomland.'' Residents began moving into the complex in 1968, and 
construction was completed in 1973. Co-op City is divided into five 
sections, with each section denoted by a letter of the alphabet. Co-op 
City is managed by the Riverbay Corporation and is led by a Board of 15 
residents, each elected to three-year terms.
  Co-op City is a special place, not just to me, but to the thousands 
of people who have had the privilege of calling it home over the years. 
I myself am a former Co-op City resident, and my family and I lived 
there for many years. I have so many fond memories from my time there; 
from starting a family to beginning my career in public service, I can 
trace so many wonderful moments and life-events back to my Co-op City 
days. I can also trace so many wonderful friendships back to Co-op 
City, many I still cherish to this day.
  As fortunate as I was to have lived in Co-op City, I am just as 
fortunate to now represent Co-op City in the halls of Congress. I hope 
that my service can in some way give back to the community that has 
given me so much.
  As a part of the Mitchell-Lama housing program, Co-op City has 
provided quality housing at an affordable rate to generations of New 
Yorkers. As we celebrate its 50th Anniversary, it's important to 
reflect on just how fortunate we are to have such a strong and thriving 
housing development in the Bronx. I'm proud to say I lived in Co-op 
City, and I'm just as proud to still serve Co-op City today as 
Congressman.
  Congratulations to the Riverbay Board, the entire Co-op City 
community, and all the residents who have made the past 50 years in Co-
op City a tremendous success
                          




  Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, it is my distinct privilege to honor and 
recognize the accomplishments of a dear friend, a dedicated public 
servant, and an overall wonderful human being, my colleague Congressman 
Joe Crowley. This year, the Ancient Order of Hibernians in the Bronx is 
honoring Joe at their Annual Dinner Dance. They could not have picked a 
more deserving honoree.
  Joe and I go way back, starting with our days together in Albany as 
Members of the New York State Assembly. A native of Woodside, Queens 
and lifelong New Yorker, Joe has served the people of the Bronx and 
Queens in Congress since 1998. Before being elected to Congress, Joe 
received a bachelor's degree from Queens College, ran a successful 
small business for nearly a decade and represented the 30th Assembly 
District in the New York State legislature. Throughout his career in 
public service, Joe has been driven by a desire to protect New York's 
middle class.
  Joe has always been dedicated to making the Bronx-Queens community 
more prosperous and secure. He established the Crime Stoppers program 
in 2002 to support local organizations that are working to reduce crime 
and improve the quality of life in our neighborhoods, and it has 
delivered more than $1 million in federal funding to the Bronx-Queens 
community for graffiti clean-up, after-school programming, and civic 
patrol efforts.
  As Chairman of the Democratic Caucus, the fourth-highest ranking 
position in House Democratic Leadership, Joe's efforts in Congress 
focused on building strong communities, creating jobs, increasing 
access to health care and housing, protecting seniors' hard-earned 
benefits, and opening up educational opportunities for working 
families.
  When not fighting for his constituents, Joe can be found spending 
time with his lovely family--wife Kasey Crowley and their three 
children--or playing with his band.
  Both local and national media have recognized Joe for his effective 
and impressive record of leadership in Congress. The New York Times has 
noted that his peers consider him to be a ``hard working 
representative'' who is ``an impassioned advocate for his district.'' I 
couldn't have said it better myself. Come January I will miss Joe's 
presence in Washington, but I know he will continue to be a powerful 
force for good in the New York City community. Congratulations to Joe 
on this honor and a remarkable career.
                          




  Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, our houses of worship are often the ties that 
bind our communities together. In Rye, few institutions have been as 
successful in strengthening the neighborhood and bringing people 
together as the Community Synagogue of Rye, which this year is 
celebrating its remarkable 70th Anniversary.
  One Sunday in early autumn 1948, 7-year-old Betty Wolder asked her 
parents if she could go to church with her friend Susan who was 
Christian. Her parents explained that since they were Jewish and did 
not belong to Susan's church, she could not attend. Betty continued to 
ask questions and her parents wanted to give her better answers. The 
Wolders contacted the few Jewish people they knew in Rye about forming 
a Jewish religious school, and a sponsoring group of families. The 
response was extraordinarily positive, and the rest is history.
  A beautiful mansion--built in 1903 at 200 Forest Avenue--was 
purchased in June of 1950, and Rabbi Samuel H. Gordon, an experienced, 
widely traveled liberal Rabbi, was hired as the first spiritual leader 
in 1950. From there, Community Synagogue grew and flourished. The 
congregation is now around 500 families and over 300 students from Rye, 
and several communities between Greenwich and White Plains. The 
synagogue has an ambitious education program for both children and 
adults, numerous opportunities to become involved in social action, 
beautiful worship services, and life cycle celebrations. Their 
enthusiastic and active committees help make the synagogue a dynamic 
and caring community, and their work has grown beyond the congregation 
to serve the greater community.
  Community Synagogue of Rye has had an amazing 70 years. 
Congratulations to the leadership and congregation on this occasion.
                          




  Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, the importance of a free and open press 
cannot be overstated, especially in our local communities. I am very 
fortunate to represent a district that is covered by the Irish Echo, an 
outstanding local newspaper, which is led by my friend and one of this 
year's Ancient Order of Hibernians' honorees, Ray O'Hanlon.
  As Ranking Member on the House Foreign Affairs Committee, I have had 
the pleasure of working with Ray for many years on a wide variety of 
topics, including Irish-American issues which have always been 
particularly close to my heart.
  Ray is the editor of the New York-published Irish Echo. A native of 
Dublin who worked for
the Irish Press newspaper group before moving to the United States in 
1987, Ray has reported from three continents in a news career spanning 
39 years.
  In addition to his work as a reporter and editor, Ray has been a 
frequent contributor to U.S., Irish, and British media outlets 
reporting on Ireland, Irish-American affairs, and Anglo-Irish 
relations. He has appeared on CBS 60 minutes, ABC World News Tonight, 
and the Lehrer News Hour on PBS. He has also been interviewed on RTE, 
BBC and ITV, both television and radio.
  A prolific writer, Ray's book, ``The New Irish Americans'' (Roberts 
Rinehart, 1998) was the recipient of a Washington Irving Book Award. 
``The South Lawn Plot,'' his first fiction work, was published in 2011 
by Boston-based Gemma Media publishers. Ray is currently working on a 
new book on Irish immigration that will have a particular focus on the 
1965 Immigration Reform and Nationality Act. A graduate of University 
College Dublin, Ray lives with his wife Lisa, a native of Danville, 
Illinois, in Ossining, New York. They have three grown children: Kate, 
Liz and Jack.
  Ray O'Hanlon has accomplished a great deal over a long and 
distinguished career. He is most deserving of this wonderful 
recognition from AOH. Congratulations to Ray and I thank him for all he 
continues to do on behalf of our community.
                          




  Ms. LEE. Mr. Speaker, I rise today as an elected representative, but 
also as a mother--a mother who is horrified and outraged by the actions 
taken by the Trump Administration to deliberately separate families.
  Like any mother, I love my children and cannot imagine being 
separated from them. But because of the Trump Administration's 
policies, some mothers have no choice.
  Just this week, I have been working to reunite two mothers in my 
community who were prevented from reuniting with their families.
  The first story I want to share is of Maria Mendoza-Sanchez. Maria 
has lived with her family in the East Bay for more than two decades. 
She and her husband Eusebio raised four beautiful children, worked 
hard, and purchased a home in Oakland.
  Maria went to school while raising small children and went on to 
become a nurse at Highland Hospital. She was beloved by her patients 
and her colleagues.
  Maria and Eusebio tried to do the right thing. They paid their taxes 
and came forward to legalize their immigration status. And for years, 
they were on a path to citizenship.
  But like many families, Maria and Eusebio's efforts did not matter to 
the Trump Administration.
  Under President Trump's misguided enforcement priorities, Maria and 
Eusebio were targeted for deportation.
  And last summer--after more than twenty years building a life in our 
community--Maria and Eusebio were torn from their children and deported 
to Mexico.
  But over the last sixteen months, we didn't give up. We kept working 
to reunite Maria with her family--to bring her home.
  Finally, after more than a year of work, we were able to secure an 
H1-B visa for Maria. And this past Sunday, I was honored and overjoyed 
to join Maria as she was reunited with her children.
  But Maria isn't the only mother torn from her children by President 
Trump's immigration policies.
  Also in the news this week was the story of Shaima, whose son 
Abdullah Hassan has been on life support at Children's Hospital 
Oakland, in my district.
  Abdullah is two years old and suffers from a genetic brain condition. 
His mother Shaima, who was born in Yemen, has been barred from 
travelling to the United States to be with her son because of the Trump 
Administration's un-American Muslim ban.
  Abdullah doesn't have much time left--and Shaima feared that she 
would not be able to say goodbye to her young son.
  Mr. Speaker--is this really who we are? A country that denies mothers 
safe passage to be with their dying children?
  No family should ever have to endure this.
  And in the face of such unimaginable cruelty, I am proud to say that 
our community stepped up. I want to thank everyone who showed up, who 
protested and organized and petitioned for this outcome.
  Because of your advocacy, the State Department granted a visa waiver 
to Shaima so she can be with her son. She will be able to be with her 
son, to hug him and to say goodbye.
  But we know that there are many other people like Maria and Shaima 
who remain separated from their families.
  When I went down to the border earlier this year, I saw the prison-
like conditions that they were keeping children in.
  There were kids sleeping on concrete floor--with only thin emergency 
blankets to keep them warm.
  And to this very day, there are hundreds of children in HHS custody. 
And Secretary Nielson can't tell us when they will be reunited.
  Let's be clear: this isn't an immigration policy. This is a family 
separation policy.
  Children torn from their mothers, parents deported away from their 
kids. And it's up to Congress to stop it.
  It's past time for us to restore--justice, dignity and common sense 
to this immigration system.
  We need to ensure kids who have lived here their entire lives--like 
Maria's oldest daughter--can make a life in the only country they have 
ever known.
  We need to get this disgraceful, discriminatory travel ban off the 
books, so no loved one has to experience what Shaima went through.
  We need to pass comprehensive immigration reform so that people like 
Maria and Eusebio can come out of the shadows.
  Mr. Speaker--for every case like Maria's or Shaima's there are dozens 
more left unresolved.
  Countless families have been left in limbo, unsure if or when they 
will ever see their loved ones again.
  Not only do we owe it to these families to fix our broken immigration 
system--we owe it to the country and the constitution to live up to 
American values.
                          




  Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize an organization 
that has done tremendous work both locally and on the global stage for 
10 remarkable years now, The AFYA Foundation.
  The vision for AFYA began to take shape in a tent in the Serengeti. 
It was 2008, and AFYA's founder, Danielle Butin, was in Tanzania. She 
saw a woman sitting in a tent crying, who said, ``I am a highly sought-
after physician from London, I took a month off from my practice to 
come here to volunteer and work in medical clinics. But they have 
nothing . . . absolutely nothing. I cannot save children from malaria 
because there are no meds or IV bags of fluids. People come in with 
infected wounds, and I have nothing to treat them with.'' In that 
moment, Danielle was compelled to take action. She returned home and 
immediately put her familiarity with and experience in New York City 
healthcare to use--cold calling hospitals and asking about materials 
that are discarded. In January 2008 she launched AFYA, which means 
``health'' or ``wellness'' in Swahili.
  Almost immediately, hospitals started donating supplies. Since they 
didn't have a warehouse to store the equipment and supplies, a semi-
trailer sat for three weeks outside her home in Westchester County. 
These humble beginnings are what grew 10 years later into an 
organization with a staff of 14, 3,000 volunteers annually, and a 
17,000 square foot warehouse in Yonkers.
  Today, AFYA continues to serve those in need with the same compassion 
that inspired its vision ten years ago on the African savannah. As the 
Congressman representing Yonkers and the Ranking Democrat on the House 
Foreign Affairs Committee, I couldn't be prouder of the work they have 
done and continue to do. I want to congratulate Danielle and the entire 
AFYA team on ten remarkable years and thank them for all they have done 
to better our community and world.




  Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I want to honor a civic organization in 
Yonkers that this year is celebrating a remarkable milestone--the 
Yonkers Chamber of Commerce. 2018 will mark 125 years for the Chamber, 
which for well over a century now has worked to improve economic 
development in the region while building and promoting the city of 
Yonkers.
  The Chamber's legacy of service began, officially, on May 1, 1893 
when William F. Cochran, a leading Yonkers businessman, entered the old 
City Court Room and rapped his gavel to officially sanction what was to 
become a tradition to the local business community. The Yonkers Board 
of Trade was born. A number of prominent citizens, fifty-two to be 
exact, gathered to sanction what would later become Yonkers' leading 
business organization.
  A decade later, the Board of Trade continued to address issues of 
concern and helped establish a visible and viable business community. 
In 1903 the decision was made to form a Chamber of Commerce, and the 
process to make this a reality was put into place. On December 8, 1913, 
the Yonkers Chamber of Commerce officially became the 325th certified 
member of the United States Chamber of Commerce.
  The Chamber of Commerce has served as the guardian and advocate of 
business, and works to foster a healthy relationship with government to 
establish programs designed to enhance business opportunities and 
attract new commercial establishments to the city. The Chamber of 
Commerce represents a diversified membership of retail, industry, 
professionals and service organizations, etc. from major corporations 
to ``mom and pop'' stores. Each member is treated with the same respect 
and concern, regardless of size.
  Today, the mission of the Yonkers Chamber of Commerce ``to serve, 
build and promote a progressive city'' is alive and well. 
Congratulations to the entire Yonkers Chamber of Commerce Board, 
leadership, and membership on reaching this remarkable milestone.
                          




  Mr. POSEY. Mr. Speaker, on December 21, 2018, I experienced technical 
difficulties with the electronic voting machine on the House floor, and 
my vote for S. 3628, the National Flood Insurance Program Extension 
Act, was not recorded. My intention was to vote yea for roll call No. 
500.
                          




  Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I want to honor a dear friend who has made 
such a remarkable impact in our community for more than 40 years, 
Reverend Dr. Keith Elijah Thompson of Bronx Miracle Gospel Tabernacle 
Word of Faith Ministries.
  Many have referred to Rev. Thompson as the ``Man in the Community'' 
due to his four decades of service to the northeast Bronx. After a 
successful career as an entrepreneur, he answered the call from God and 
entered full-time ministry in 1980. From the inception of the ministry, 
Rev. Thompson integrated a holistic approach, giving special attention 
to the Tripartite nature of human beings to establish communication 
beyond the confines of church. Starting out as a simple storefront, 
Bronx Miracle Gospel Tabernacle World grew by leaps and bounds. In 1993 
the Church moved locations to accommodate the growing congregation. Now 
located on Burke Avenue, the church began to expand further into the 
community through a series of outreach programs including GED and 
college prep courses, in addition to Missions and radio outreach.
  Rev. Thompson was also instrumental in spearheading several other 
high-profile community initiatives and groups, including the Clergy 
Coalition of the 47th Precinct and the White Plains Road/Burke Avenue 
Merchant Association. He also served as Dean of El Shaddai Christian 
School, Vice President of the 49th Precinct Clergy Council, member of 
the 47th Precinct Community Council, and has been active with Bronx 
Community Board 12 and the Williamsbridge and Bronx branches of the 
NAACP. As Chancellor of the Bronx Resource Community Center, which he 
helped form, Rev. Thompson oversaw a facility that provided high school 
equivalency diplomas, job training, and basic computer training to the 
community.
  In October 2014 Bronx Miracle Gospel Tabernacle World moved once 
again to accommodate growing membership. The move has allowed Rev. 
Thompson to further expand services, which now include Back to School 
Festivals and clothing donation distribution.
  Rev. Thompson has accomplished so much for his congregants and for 
the entire northeast Bronx community as a whole. This year, Bronx 
Miracle Gospel Tabernacle World is celebrating his 38th Pastoral 
Anniversary. On this wonderful occasion, I want to congratulate Rev. 
Thompson and thank him for the wonderful work he and his ministries 
continue to do.
                          




  Ms. SHEA-PORTER. Mr. Speaker, due to an illness, I regret that I was 
unable to make votes from December 19, 2018 to December 21, 2018.
  Had I been present, I would have voted NAY on Roll Call No. 446, Roll 
Call No. 463, Roll Call No. 467, Roll Call No. 468, Roll Call No. 469, 
Roll Call No. 470, Roll Call No. 472, Roll Call No. 494, Roll Call No. 
497, and Roll Call No. 498.
  I would have voted YEA on Roll Call No. 436, Roll Call No. 437, Roll 
Call No. 438, Roll Call No. 439, Roll Call No. 440, Roll Call No. 441, 
Roll Call No. 442, Roll Call No. 443, Roll Call No. 444, Roll Call No. 
445, Roll Call No. 447, Roll Call No. 448, Roll Call No. 449, Roll Call 
No. 450, Roll Call No. 451, Roll Call No. 452, Roll Call No. 453, Roll 
Call No. 454, Roll Call No. 455, Roll Call No. 456, Roll Call No. 457, 
Roll Call No. 458, Roll Call No. 459, Roll Call No. 460, Roll Call No. 
461, Roll Call No. 462, Roll Call No. 464, Roll Call No. 465, Roll Call 
No. 466, Roll Call No. 471, Roll Call No. 473, Roll Call No. 474, Roll 
Call No. 475, Roll Call No. 476, Roll Call No. 477, Roll Call No. 478, 
Roll Call No. 479, Roll Call No. 480, Roll Call No. 481, Roll Call No. 
482, Roll Call No. 483, Roll Call No. 484, Roll Call No. 485, Roll Call 
No. 486, Roll Call No. 487, Roll Call No. 488, Roll Call No. 489, Roll 
Call No. 490, Roll Call No. 491, Roll Call No. 492, Roll Call No. 493, 
Roll Call No. 495, Roll Call No. 496, Roll Call No. 499, and Roll Call 
No. 500.
                          




  Mr. ELLISON. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to celebrate the life of my 
constituent and neighbor, Mr. Thomas Charles Braun. A beloved artist, 
activist, family man, and small business owner, Mr. Braun passed away 
in October 2018. I join my neighbors in recognizing the tremendous 
gifts he gave to our community.
  Born in Lake City, Minnesota, Mr. Braun was always an artistic and 
passionate person. After getting his degree in theater from Lawrence 
University, Mr. Braun taught theater at Lea College, Ekerd College, and 
Normandale Community College. He inspired countless young adults 
through his commitment to fun and daring productions before he left 
academia to run Wild Rumpus in Minneapolis in 1988.
  Consistently recognized as one of the most inventive bookstores 
nationwide, Wild Rumpus is symbolic of the type of person Mr. Braun 
was--open and inviting, passionate about having fun, and always up for 
trying something new and mischievous. Under his devoted management, the 
store garnered national awards, including being named Bookstore of the 
Year by Publisher's Weekly in 2017. As described in his obituary, `One 
never really ``worked for'' Tom. Rather, you became a co-conspirator in 
his sense of mischief and philosophy of ``why not?'' '
  But Mr. Braun was passionate not only about light-hearted ventures. 
He founded Linden Hills Power & Light, an organization that fights for 
climate action on the grassroots level. They were a key constituency 
pushing for citywide door-to-door compost collection, spearheading the 
first pilot program with the City of Minneapolis and Hennepin County. 
Mr. Braun's drive to model the world he wanted to see through his own 
choices and actions was a driving force for some of our most important 
city-wide sustainability efforts.
  Though Mr. Braun is no longer with us, the impact he has made on our 
community will be visible for years to come. I am grateful that he gave 
us so much of his energy and vision, and that he created lasting 
organizations that will continue to model his commitment to being a 
good person, doing right by his neighbors, and fighting for a better 
world. I thank Mr. Braun for all that he has given to Minnesota.
                          




  Ms. ROSEN. Mr. Speaker, on December 21, I was not present due to the 
death of my brother two days prior. Had I been present, I would have 
voted ``yea'' on roll call votes 474, 475, 476, 477, 478, 479, 480, 
481, 482, 483, 484, 486, 487, 488, 489, 490, 491, 492, 493, 495, 496, 
499, and 500. I would have voted ``nay'' on roll call votes 485, 494, 
497, and 498.
  
                          




  Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, our community here in New York's 16th 
Congressional District is very fortunate to have Taryn Duffy, a friend 
who this year is being honored by the Ancient Order of Hibernians for 
all her outstanding work. I want to take a moment to recognize her on 
the occasion.
  Taryn has extensive experience within the New York State public 
policy arena, as well as public relations and communications. As Vice 
President of Corporate Communications & Public Affairs for Empire City 
Casino at Yonkers Raceway, Taryn oversees public relations and external 
affairs. She is also principal of TSD Strategies, Inc., a public 
relations and communications firm founded in 2014.
  As a former Vice President at Mercury Public Affairs, a national 
public strategy firm, Taryn put her experience to work for clients in a 
variety of industries. She has worked on dozens of political campaigns 
and briefly departed the political world to serve as Director of 
Admissions of Mercy College's Bronx Campus.
  Recognized as an advocate for volunteer service and civic engagement, 
Taryn was a recipient of City & State Magazine's Above and Beyond 
Award, a Bronx Chamber of Commerce Honoree for distinguished service, 
and honored as a Women of Influence by the Irish Voice.
  Outside of her many professional accomplishments, Taryn is passionate 
about mentoring young women in their careers and served as a panelist 
for the Workforce Development Institute's ``Women in Leadership: 
Securing a Seat at the Table'' forum hosted by Senate Leader Andrea 
Stewart-Cousins and then-Assembly Member Shelley Mayer. She was also a 
panelist at City & State Magazine's ``On Advocacy'' conference to 
assist non-profit organizations in their advocacy efforts and has led 
campaign readiness trainings for women interested in running for 
political office.
  Active in numerous civic and professional organizations, Taryn serves 
on a variety of boards including United Way of Westchester & Putnam 
Counties, Business Council of Westchester, ArtsWestchester, Yonkers 
Workforce Development Board, the Yonkers Mayor's Women's Advisory 
Council, Bronx Advisory Council for Visions Services for the Blind, 
Yonkers Career & Technical Education Advisory Council, and Bronxville 
Terrace Owners Corporation. She is also a member of The Public 
Relations Society of America.
  Taryn Duffy has accomplished a great deal and has made some 
tremendous contributions to the community. AOH picked a most deserving 
honoree. Congratulations to Taryn.
                          




  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that when the 
Senate completes its business today, it adjourn to then convene for pro 
forma session only with no business being conducted on Thursday, 
January 3, at 11:50 a.m. and that the Senate adjourn until it next 
convenes at 12 noon on Thursday, January 3, pursuant to the 
Constitution; further, that following the prayer and pledge and 
following the presentation of the certificates of election and the 
swearing in of elected Members and the required live quorum, the 
morning hour be deemed expired, the Journal of proceedings be approved 
to date, and the time for the two leaders be reserved for their use 
later in the day; and further, that following leader remarks, the 
Senate be in a period of morning business, with Senators permitted to 
speak therein for up to 10 minutes each.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
                          




  Mr. KIND. Mr. Speaker, I was unable to have my votes recorded on the 
House floor from Wednesday, December 19 through Friday, December 21, 
2018. Had I been present, I would have supported all bills considered 
under a suspension of the rules, with the following exceptions:
   I would have voted no on S. 1934 as I feel that it is important that 
environmental standards in remote areas must be strengthened whenever 
possible to preserve natural landscapes.
   I would have voted against H.R. 7388. While I support long term 
reforms to the National Flood Insurance Program, I feel that it is 
important to avoid any lapse in the program to ensure continuity for 
homeowners and those looking to purchase a home. To that end, this bill 
would have been counterproductive by creating uncertainty about the 
NFIP by sending the extension back to the Senate at the 11th hour.
   I would also like to add a few comments on a couple bills that I 
would have supported:
   In particular, as an original cosponsor of the Codifying Useful 
Regulatory Definitions (CURD) Act, I would have voted yes on final 
passage of S. 2322. This bill would give real Wisconsin cheese makers 
the certainty they need to produce a special natural product.
   I also would have voted yes on the Space Frontier Act of 2018, 
despite serious concerns about process. Just as Ranking Member of the 
House Science, Space, and Technology Committee Bernice Johnson stated 
on the floor, I support NASA's mission and thus would have supported 
this bill.
   Additionally, I would have opposed the following bills considered 
under a rule:
   I would have voted against H.R. 88. A $100 billion boondoggle, H.R. 
88 would have arbitrarily extended some important credits but not 
others, leave some communities suffering from disasters out in the cold 
and inject unnecessary social politics into our tax code. As I said on 
the floor on November 29th, the first time this bill was brought to the 
floor, I would have opposed the package.
   I would have voted against H.R. 695, as amended. Rather than 
providing pay for dedicated public servants over the holidays, 
particularly TSA agents working to protect Americans traveling to see 
loved ones over the holidays, House leadership rejected a unanimous 
agreement in the Senate to keep the government open. Instead, they 
passed a blatantly partisan package that had no chance of passage in 
the Senate and virtually ensured a government shutdown.
                          




  Mr. McCLINTOCK. Mr. Speaker, I rise to recognize Sheriff Keith Royal, 
who is retiring from the Nevada County Sheriff's Office after more than 
40 years in law enforcement.
   Sheriff Royal is a life-long public servant dedicated to protecting 
and serving his community. His father Kenneth, a Deputy with the 
Sacramento County Sheriff's Office, was killed in the line of duty 
while attempting to apprehend a robbery suspect. His two brothers, Ken 
and Patrick, and nephew Steven all served in the Sacramento County 
Sheriff's Office, where his son-in-law Jeff is currently a Deputy.
   Keith was born and raised in Northern California and remains an 
active member of his community. After graduating from Cal State 
Sacramento with a degree in Criminal Justice, he served as a California 
DMV Investigator, shortly after which he began training at the 
Sacramento Sheriff's Academy. As an Executive Lieutenant, he served in 
various roles with the Sacramento Sheriff's Office, including as a Jail 
Manager, Reserve Coordinator, and Vice Detail.
   First elected as Nevada County Sheriff in 1998, Royal's leadership 
led to an overall drop in the crime rate. He worked to modernize the 
dispatch center, expand the Neighborhood Watch and Volunteer programs, 
and establish the School Resource Officer Program. Additionally, 
Sheriff Royal amassed $8 million in special revenue funds for the 
Sheriff's Office, implemented computerized jail management and high-
band radio systems, and obtained a new evidence facility and DNA lab. 
During this time, he also served as President of the California State 
Sheriffs' Association, and as Chair of its Undersheriff's Committee.
   These are just a handful of the things that Sheriff Royal was able 
to accomplish over his tenure, which has created a safer and more 
prosperous community for the residents of Nevada County.
   Having been the second-longest serving Sheriff in the history of 
Nevada County, Sheriff Royal is now ready to spend more time with his 
daughters and granddaughters. Along with teaching them to fish, he 
hopes to spend time maintaining his garden, golfing, and enjoying some 
much-needed down time.
   Sheriff Royal's service has left a lasting impact on Nevada County, 
and I thank him for his service and wish him the best in his future 
endeavors.
                          




  Mr. LUETKEMEYER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to ask my colleagues to 
join me in congratulating the Hermann Bearcats Volleyball team for 
winning the 2018 Missouri Class 2 State Volleyball Championship.
   This team and Coach Linda Lampkin should be commended for all of 
their hard work throughout this past year and for bringing home the 
state championship to their school and community.
   I ask you to join me in recognizing the Hermann Bearcats Volleyball 
team for a job well done.
                          




  Mr. COSTA. Mr. Speaker, as a member of the House Agriculture 
Committee and a member of the Farm Bill Conference Committee, I am 
pleased that the Conference report will strengthen the existing SNAP 
Employment and Training program by facilitating better connections 
between existing workforce development efforts and employers in local 
communities. Specifically, conferees rejected the one-size-fits-all 
approach to training programs that H.R. 2 had initially adopted, as 
these programs have consistently proven to be ineffective--too often 
failing to match low-income adults with the types of training and job 
opportunities they need. Instead, the Farm Bill conference report 
supports collaboration between workforce development programs and 
employers already tackling this job in their communities to better 
serve SNAP participants--a win for both participants and for local 
employers.
  I am also pleased that the Conference report includes several 
provisions that will improve the types of programs that SNAP employment 
and training can provide. The conference report reinforces the 
requirement that states properly assess clients and assign them to 
programs appropriate to their needs and skills. It also recognizes the 
important role case management services can play in helping to address 
barriers to work by requiring states to provide these types of 
services. Additionally, conferees prioritized the funding of innovative 
employment and training pilot programs, including pilot programs that 
serve specific groups with known barriers to work. These types of smart 
investments will have a
demonstrated impact on improving client outcomes, as opposed to 
spending billions on the creation of large new bureaucracies to track 
monthly work tests for millions of SNAP participants as the House 
passed bill would have done.
  I am also pleased that the conferees address a long-standing 
problem--when a SNAP participant is referred to a training program, and 
the program determines that the services they provide are not well 
matched to the needs of the participant. States have long been required 
to do meaningful assessments in order to properly assign clients. We 
believe the expanded investment in case management should improve this 
capacity. And, this bill emphasized that reassessment is important as 
well. But sometimes, when the state refers someone to a local training 
provider the provider--after doing their own assessment--determines 
that their services aren't appropriate for the individual. Under 
current law, that leaves the individual out of luck and even at risk of 
losing SNAP benefits and wastes the time and services of the training 
provider. The bill and report make clear that states must reassess and 
reassign the participant if appropriate. Participants will no longer 
lose benefits because states are doing a poor job of assigning them to 
programs that don't work for them.
  The primary role of employment and training programs should always be 
to transition people to sustained self-reliance rather than to find 
reasons to cut them off from benefits.
                          




  Mr. LUETKEMEYER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to ask my colleagues to 
join me in congratulating the Eureka Wildcats Volleyball team for 
winning the 2018 Missouri Class 4 State Volleyball Championship.
   This team and Coach Jodie Fowler should be commended for all of 
their hard work throughout this past year and for bringing home the 
state championship to their school and community.
   I ask you to join me in recognizing the Eureka Wildcats Volleyball 
team for a job well done.
                          




  Mr. HARPER. Mr. Speaker, on behalf of myself and Mr. Brady of 
Pennsylvania, the Ranking Member of the Committee on House 
Administration, I would like to take this opportunity to recognize 
Thomas G. Hungar for his distinguished service as General Counsel to 
the House of Representatives.
  Drawing on his mastery of constitutional law and broad litigation 
experience, Mr. Hungar has provided thoughtful and effective legal 
advice to Members, Committees, and staff on a host of legal matters, 
without regard to political affiliation. As the House's top lawyer, Mr. 
Hungar has employed his considerable expertise and sound judgment to 
protect and strengthen the institutional prerogatives of the House, 
rightfully earning him the respect and admiration of the entire House 
community.
  Of particular importance to the Committee on House Administration, 
Mr. Hungar has skillfully counseled the Committee's Members and staff 
on a wide range of significant matters with far-reaching institutional 
implications. Mr. Hungar has also been a trusted advisor to the Chief 
Administrative Officer of the House. Mr. Hungar has been a source of 
tremendous leadership and legal advice to the Committee and the House.
  On behalf of the Members of the Committee on House Administration and 
the Committee staff, we thank Mr. Hungar for his service to the House 
and wish him the very best as he takes the next step in his illustrious 
career.
                          




  Mr. NADLER. Mr. Speaker, today, I rise, along with Hank Johnson, 
Chair of the Subcommittee on Courts, Intellectual Property, and the 
Internet; and Sheila Jackson Lee, Chair of the Subcommittee on Crime, 
Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations--to thank Jason 
Everett for nearly a decade of service to the House Judiciary 
Committee.
  Growing up in Alexandria, Virginia, Jason attended college at Duke 
University and law school at William and Mary, before returning to the 
Washington, D.C. area. He began his career on Capitol Hill as a 
Legislative Aide to Senator Barbara Boxer, and he later worked for 
Congressman Mel Watt as a Legislative Assistant covering Judiciary 
Committee issues. He joined the House Judiciary Committee in 2009 as a 
Counsel, working on intellectual property and other issues, and he 
later rose to become Chief Counsel of the Subcommittee on Courts, 
Intellectual Property, and the Internet, as well as a Deputy Chief 
Counsel of the Full Committee, overseeing the Intellectual Property and 
Crime Subcommittees.
  As Chief Counsel of the Intellectual Property Subcommittee, Jason was 
responsible for handling highly complex patent, copyright, trademark, 
and courts issues, among other matters. Many Members and staff relied 
heavily on his ability to explain, in a clear and understandable 
manner, the often complicated and highly technical matters that moved 
through his Subcommittee. He also deftly balanced his substantive 
expertise with a keen appreciation of the various stakeholders' 
interests in each issue, and an ability to find consensus among these 
sometimes divergent interests.
  Jason's efforts were vital to enacting significant reforms to the 
intellectual property ecosystem that will promote innovation and 
protect the creative community. For example, he worked tirelessly to 
pass the Defend Trade Secrets Act, which helps firms keep proprietary 
information--which, if disclosed, could be ruinous to them--from being 
made public. This legislation will save the American economy many 
billions of dollars, and preserve many thousands of jobs.
  Jason was also a critical player in the Committee's lengthy review of 
the Copyright laws, leading to passage of the Music Modernization Act, 
historic bipartisan legislation to reform the music licensing system. 
He spent countless hours working with a vast array of stakeholders to 
craft legislation that will better serve music creators and digital 
music providers, and ultimately consumers. He was also instrumental in 
passing legislation to promote greater diversity among patent holders, 
passing legislation to ensure that visually impaired individuals have 
access to published works, and developing hearings to oversee the 
implementation of the America Invents Act.
  In each of these matters, Jason not only worked with various parties 
to achieve consensus, but he also worked closely with his Republican 
counterparts to find a bipartisan solution. Jason's cooperative spirit 
and excellent sense of humor helped pave the way for legislation that 
ultimately garnered near unanimous support.
  In addition to Jason's work on the Intellectual Property 
Subcommittee, as a Deputy Chief Counsel for the Full Committee, he also 
worked closely with his colleagues on the Crime Subcommittee. In this 
role, he helped navigate many thorny issues in pursuit of criminal 
justice reform, and his efforts paid off with passage of the First Step 
Act. He has also been involved in a range of other criminal justice 
issues, such as the Violence Against Women Act and gun safety.
  Jason is universally well-liked and respected among Democrats and 
Republicans, Members and staff, both on the Hill and off. His positive 
attitude and hard work will be greatly missed by everyone who worked 
with him, but we wish him all the best in his future endeavors, and we 
thank him for his service to the Judiciary Committee, to the Congress, 
and to the country.
                          




  Mr. BRADY of Texas. Mr. Speaker, it is with a deep sentiment of 
gratitude that I rise today to recognize Barbara Angus, Chief Tax 
Counsel for the Ways and Means Committee, as she departs our Committee 
staff.
  Whenever I travel Texas and the country, folks often ask me when I 
knew that tax reform was going to be a reality. Without a doubt, that 
moment hit me when Barbara interviewed for the position of Chief Tax 
Counsel.
  Holding degrees from two Ivy League Institutions, and with decades of 
experience at the Treasury Department and within the private sector, 
few in Washington match Barbara's intelligence, leadership, and work 
ethic. Barbara understands our tax code almost better than anyone else. 
Which is why she understood that it was time for a rewrite, to get rid 
of its uncompetitive and unfair nature.
  Mr. Speaker, Barbara's efforts changed history. With her guidance and 
expertise, we were able to create a tax code that finally works for 
families and Main Street businesses.
  For the first time in over 30 years, we did what many said was 
impossible. We lowered rates while broadening the base; we closed 
special-interest loopholes that riddled the system for far too long; we 
gave families first say over their hard-earned money; and we gave our 
job creators a tax code that allows them to compete and win here at 
home instead of abroad. None of this would have been possible without 
Barbara Angus.
  On behalf of our entire Committee, I want to say thank you to Barbara 
for her three years of service to the people's House. I am so thankful 
for her guidance and friendship. My Chairmanship has been benefited 
greatly because of Barbara and it has been an honor to work with her.
  We wish her all the best as she moves on to the next chapter of her 
storied career. Barbara will be missed dearly by our Committee staff, 
and she will always be part of our Ways and Means family.
                          




  Mr. RICHMOND. Mr. Speaker, I rise to honor the work of the 
Congressional Black Caucus during the 115th Congress.
  The Congressional Black Caucus (CBC) spent the 115th Congress 
fighting against attempts to return this country to darker days by 
being fearless in telling our truth. Black Americans, who helped build 
the very Capitol in which we stand, are once again witnessing our own 
government set the wheels in motion to turn against us. This Congress, 
led by a group of people cozier with the one percent than with the 
forgotten man or woman, has worked with this Presidential 
administration to turn back the clock. The CBC has stood up for our 
values time and time again to say that we will not go back to those 
dark days. We have been unrelenting in standing against this tide and 
will not shy away from this battle.
  The CBC has worked tirelessly to infuse morality into the legislative 
debates during the 115th Congress and perform tireless oversight into 
the harmful policies of this Presidential administration. Since this 
President took office, he has led efforts to reverse substantive 
policies that have helped black Americans and failed to stem the tide 
of hatred and racism that made a strong resurgence during this divisive 
tenure. The lack of moral leadership has endangered disenfranchised 
communities and policy decisions have eroded critical economic, health 
and education programming. The Caucus has taken every opportunity to 
lift every voice to object to hurtful and immoral lawmaking while 
engaging the public in conversations about the stakes we were facing.
  The CBC had to fight for our values from the earliest days of this 
Congress, with an incoming President nominating a number of unqualified 
people to lead his cabinet agencies, including then Senator Jefferson 
Beauregard Sessions, who the President wanted to appoint to the 
Department of Justice. I represented the Caucus alongside my colleagues 
Senator Booker and living legend Representative John Lewis in speaking 
out against Sessions' lifetime of support for troubling policies that 
impeded the progress of black Americans.
  The President wasted no time in partnering with his allies in this 
Congress to advance an agenda that carried water for billionaires while 
ignoring the nation' s most vulnerable citizens. The Caucus once again 
reprised its role as the Conscience of the Congress by opposing this 
Congress and this White House as they worked in concert to attack 
vulnerable communities by neutering programming that served them.
  When the White House planned a national voter suppression and 
intimidation effort, the Congressional Black Caucus criticized the 
Administration's sham ``Voter Integrity Commission'' for seeking to 
solve a voter fraud issue that was clearly non-existent. In a few short 
weeks, the states themselves rose up against this effort and it 
mercifully perished due to a strong resistance against its undemocratic 
underpinnings. When the President demonstrated an uncomfortable 
coziness with Russian operatives the Caucus performed oversight. When 
the Department of Justice re-energized the war on drugs the Caucus 
stood firm in its opposition to restoring policies that unfairly 
targeted black citizens in law enforcement activity feeding an 
unsustainable mass incarceration machine. When the President asked the 
Caucus and black communities ``What the Hell do You Have to Lose'', the 
Caucus went to the White House with a 130 page policy document 
educating this President about issues facing black America. We provided 
dozens of policy options that a serious White House could have 
leveraged to improve the lives of Americans of all colors who face 
challenges. We haven't heard back.
  The CBC responded to the White House's immoral budget request with 
its own budget, infused with morality and justice. The Caucus' budget 
proposal invested in education, jobs and healthcare while asking the 
wealthiest among us to pay their fair share. The budget received strong 
support in a floor vote and we are going to continue to introduce 
spending plans that invest in the important things in this nation in a 
responsible fashion.
  The CBC stood up against the injustice sought by this Congress when 
it planned to cut taxes for billionaires while robbing health care from 
struggling families. This crisis of morality in Congress was compounded 
by an administration that was sabotaging affordable health care at 
every turn. Facing a moral crisis and the potential for enduring pain, 
the CBC called on everyone to think twice before hurting tens of 
millions of Americans. We raised our voices against the injustice of 
failing to invest in new jobs for hard working Americans while Congress 
handed corporate giants billions of dollars in tax breaks. All the 
while the President sought historic cuts to programs that seniors, 
children and families rely on to live. We have pointed out repeatedly 
that these morally bankrupt policies will also endanger the country, 
impairing future investments in our human capital and other important 
resources to all of our eventual detriment.
  The CBC has been actively fighting against a steady stream of 
increased hate crimes and public racism. When this President failed to 
condemn white supremacists and Nazis, the CBC called for racists to be 
purged from this White House, and within weeks, most of the most odious 
and hateful people around the President were gone. We also called for 
white supremacist figures to be purged from Congressional spaces and 
for Confederate symbols and statues to be removed. We have also 
continued to fight for a more fair criminal justice system that gives 
ex-offenders a second chance while holding wayward police departments 
accountable for unconstitutional policing practices. Our members have 
been on the front lines of pushing for deserving non-violent offenders 
to re-enter our community and for police departments to restore 
humanity to their interactions with our neighborhoods.
  When the FBI made up a new term to describe politically engaged black 
Americans, ``black identity extremists'', the Caucus spoke truth to 
power, meeting with FBI Director Christopher Wray to demand that the 
FBI provide more insights into the origins of this harmful term and 
explain how it might impact their investigations. We made it clear that 
we expected the FBI to not target Americans simply due to their 
physical characteristics and political views. This felt like a 
throwback to an earlier, darker period in our history, when the FBI 
surveilled black Americans it found objectionable. We told Director 
Wray that the CBC would not stand for a COINTELPRO 2.0 and that his 
investigations needed to be done absent the stain of a poorly worded 
term such as ``black identity extremist''. The Caucus also repeatedly 
stood up against inept and unqualified attorneys and jurists being 
offered up for lifetime appointments to the federal judiciary. Thanks 
in large part to the work of the Caucus, some of the most horrific 
institutional racists are not on the bench today. And this will stand 
as a testament to the work of the Caucus infusing morality into the 
deliberations of legislators in this Capitol.
  When African and Caribbean countries were disrespectfully referenced 
by being called ``shithole countries'' the Caucus called for those 
remarks to be censured. At the first state of the union, this Caucus 
stared the hateful policies in the face and showed the
world that we would not let a hurtful administration impose an ounce of 
fear upon us.
  In addition to performing robust oversight, this Caucus set out to 
introduce legislation that would protect vulnerable communities while 
investing in the future. Our members put significant work into 
addressing a host of issues that would improve outcomes for black 
families and for all Americans that yearn for better. The Caucus' 1300-
page bill, the Jobs and Justice Act of 2018, is a blueprint for serious 
legislators that want to bring change to this country in an inclusive 
way. I hope that the next Congress leverages the work this Caucus has 
done by implementing much of the bill in the important legislation that 
is to come.
  This Caucus also worked to hold corporate America accountable for 
ensuring that all of America was represented in its ranks and to ensure 
that their businesses were not being leveraged to harm communities of 
color. We called on the largest companies and investors in America to 
diversity their boards, c-suites and supply chains. We also called on 
powerful social media companies to invest in more diverse workforces to 
better identify attempts to weaponize platforms to inflame racial 
tensions. In addition, we called on technology companies to better 
address implicit bias in the development of new artificial intelligence 
tools to ensure that these new tools demonstrated more promise than 
peril.
  When the history books are written, this Congress will be cited as a 
failure. Instead of serving as a constitutional check and balance 
against a historically corrupt President with repressive instincts, 
this Republican led Congress enabled and emboldened an unqualified 
executive to run roughshod over civil liberties and the rights of 
underserved and struggling communities. It is no surprise that several 
members of this Caucus have been some of the earliest voices to examine 
whether the constitutional remedy of impeachment is an appropriate tool 
to address the dangers this President poses to our republic. This 
Congress has been an embarrassment and has failed American families 
time and time again.
  But like a phoenix rising, Americans have chosen a different 
direction. The House of Representatives will be under new leadership in 
just a few short days, ushering in a new era of oversight and morally 
infused legislating with members of the CBC in key positions to deliver 
better outcomes for Americans of all kinds from all races and from all 
parties. Members of the Congressional Black Caucus are members of the 
human race who care for their fellow man and woman. We come from 
communities that have been long forgotten over the broad sweep of 
American history. These same communities have bred hope and promise 
during these same times. Our optimism and faith has never wavered, even 
at the darkest times. We have come this far by faith. And we have miles 
left to go before we sleep. The members of this Caucus will continue to 
lead in the debates that matter.
  It has been an honor to serve as the chairman of this incredible 
group of legislators. I pray that in our service, the 48 members of 
this bi-partisan, bi-cameral caucus have made our ancestors proud and 
our constituents eager to continue to work with us to advance the 
interests of all communities that seek to be led by men and women of 
conscience. We walk in the footsteps of our ancestors and have not yet 
completed the journeys that they started when they were first forced 
off overcrowded slave ships onto the shores of this nation. This has 
been an imperfect union, but it is one that is worth fighting to 
preserve.
  As I yield the chairmanship of the CBC to incoming chair Karen Bass 
of California, I wish her strength and resolve for the fights to come. 
I pray the Lord will guide her steps to continue the work of our 
ancestors and the work of the 13 Founders of the CBC, who came together 
in 1971 to raise their voices to confront the massive challenges that 
faced them at that time. Many of our challenges are the same though the 
times have changed around us. I know that Representative Bass will 
continue to lead this Caucus with intelligence, integrity and courage. 
I wish her well and I thank my colleagues for the opportunity to serve 
them as chairman.
  Mr. Speaker, I celebrate the Congressional Black Caucus during the 
115th Congress.
                          




  Mr. LUETKEMEYER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to ask my colleagues to 
join me in congratulating the Fatima Comets Boys Cross Country team for 
winning the 2018 Missouri Class 2 Cross Country Championship.
   This team and Coach Marc Bridges should be commended for all of 
their hard work throughout this past year and for bringing home the 
state championship to their school and community.
   I ask you to join me in recognizing the Fatima Comets Boys Cross 
Country team for a job well done.
                          




  Mr. HARPER. Mr. Speaker, this report is submitted in satisfaction of 
Section 3 of the Committee on House Administration Resolution dated 
December 19, 2017.
  The Committee on House Administration directed the Chief 
Administrative Officer on January 8, 2018 to develop a strategy to 
procure and deliver Workplace Rights and Responsibilities Education 
training for the House of Representatives.
  The Committee approved the proposed curriculum and delivery schedule 
on April 27, 2018. The curriculum met all requirements set forth by 
Committee resolution. Delivery began on April 30, 2018 and continued 
through December 31, 2018.
  The Committee is satisfied that all current eligible Members and 
employees of the House have completed the required training in 2018, as 
administered by the Chief Administrative Officer.
                          




  Mr. LUETKEMEYER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to ask my colleagues to 
join me in congratulating the Festus Tigers Boys Cross Country team for 
winning the 2018 Missouri Boys Class 3 State Cross Country 
Championship.
   This team and Coach Bryant Wright should be commended for all of 
their hard work throughout this past year and for bringing home the 
state championship to their school and community.
   I ask you to join me in recognizing the Festus Tigers Boys Cross 
Country team for a job well done.
                          




  Ms. MENG. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to speak about the 115th 
Congress. While I am disappointed that the current spending impasse 
could not be resolved this Congress, I am hopeful that we will remedy 
our current predicament after the swearing-in of the new Democratic 
majority. The historic House takeover by a once-in-a-generation 
incoming Democratic class of lawmakers is nothing short of inspiring. I 
wish them all the luck in the world.
  This Congress, Mr. Speaker, it was an honor to be named the 8th Most 
Effective Democrat in the House by the Center for Effective Lawmaking 
at the University of Virginia. It was also an honor to receive 100 
percent ratings from the ACLU, the Human Rights Campaign, and Planned 
Parenthood. I am proud of the fact that, according to Govtrack, the 
legislation I introduced in 2017--we are still awaiting the results for 
2018--placed me in the top 10 percent of all Members with respect to 
the number of cosponsors secured, and the top 20 percent of all Members 
with respect to the number of bipartisan cosponsors secured.
  Additionally, Mr. Speaker, it was also a pleasure serving on the 
House Appropriations Committee this Congress, particularly under the 
leadership of my good friend, Ranking Member Lowey. The work that went 
into crafting legislation totaling more than $1.2 trillion in 
discretionary spending each year was staggering, as was my own learning 
curve on my two subcommittees--the Commerce, Justice, Science 
Subcommittee and the Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations. 
Drafting measures on those subcommittees that accounted for a combined 
$109 billion in discretionary federal spending each year was an 
unforgettable experience, as was securing $1.4 billion for personal 
spending priorities.
  I would like to take this opportunity to include in the Record some 
of the legislative
achievements that were signed into law this Congress as the result of 
work performed by my office on behalf of the people of the Sixth 
Congressional District of New York:
       1) H.R. 423, the ``Anti-Spoofing Act of 2017'', which 
     criminalizes acts of spoofing (the practice of disguising 
     one's phone number) during the commission of crimes, as 
     section 503 of Division P of Public Law 115-141, the 
     ``Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2018''.
       2) H.R. 7043, the ``Better Airplanes Noise Standards Act'', 
     which requires the Federal Aviation Administration to 
     complete evaluations of alternative aircraft noise 
     measurement metrics within one year, as section 173 of Public 
     Law 115-254, the ``FAA Reauthorization Act of 2018'' (via 
     amendment no. 90 to H.R. 4).
       3) H.R. 7044, the ``Unmanned Aircraft Systems Collegiate 
     Training Initiative Program Act'', which authorized the 
     Collegiate Training Initiative Program for Unmanned Aircraft 
     Systems, as section 632 of Public Law 115-254, the ``FAA 
     Reauthorization Act of 2018'' (submitted as amendment no. 66 
     to H.R. 4 to the House Rules Committee).
       4) H.R. 7045, the ``Aircraft Avionics Systems Cybersecurity 
     Act'', which requires the Federal Aviation Administration to 
     consider and address cybersecurity concerns for avionics 
     systems--including software components, as section 506 of 
     Public Law 115-254, the ``FAA Reauthorization Act of 2018'' 
     (submitted as amendment no. 65 to H.R. 4 to the House Rules 
     Committee).
       5) H.R. 754, the ``Anwar Sadat Centennial Celebration 
     Act'', which I co-authored with Rep. Chris Stewart from Utah, 
     awarded a Congressional Gold Medal to Anwar Sadat and 
     permitted it to be presented to his widow, Jehan Sadat, and a 
     representative of the government of Egypt.
       6) Section 407 of Public Law 115-254, the ``FAA 
     Reauthorization Act of 2018'', which requires the Government 
     Accountability Office to review airlines' training policies 
     for employees and contractors regarding racial, ethnic, and 
     religious nondiscrimination and requires the Secretary of 
     Transportation to develop and disseminate best practices 
     based upon the findings of the report (via amendment no. 37 
     to H.R. 4).
       7) Section 182 of Public Law 115-254, the ``FAA 
     Reauthorization Act of 2018'', which requires the FAA to 
     review the North Shore Helicopter Route to address the noise 
     impact on affected communities, improve altitude enforcement, 
     and assess alternative routes that include an all-water route 
     over the Atlantic Ocean (via Zeldin, Meng, Suozzi H. AMDT. 
     568 to H.R. 4).
       8) Section 188 of Public Law 115-254, the ``FAA 
     Reauthorization Act of 2018'', which requires a new FAA 
     study--in addition to ongoing studies--of alternative 
     aircraft noise metrics (via Panetta, Meng, et al. amendment 
     no. 62 to H.R. 4).
       9) Section 612 of Public Law 115-254, the ``FAA 
     Reauthorization Act of 2018'', which created the FAA Women in 
     Aviation Advisory Board to promote organizations and programs 
     that provide education, training, mentorship, outreach, and 
     recruitment of women into the aviation industry (via Esty, 
     Meng, et al. amendment no. 58 to H.R. 4).
       10) Section 558 of Public Law 115-91, the ``National 
     Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018'', which 
     improved childcare services for military families by 
     enhancing the hours of operation at DOD childcare centers and 
     established childcare coordinators for military installations 
     (via amendment no. 39 to H.R. 2810).
       11) Section 544 of Public Law 115-91, the ``National 
     Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018'', which 
     extended the Yellow Ribbon Reintegration Program, a suicide 
     prevention and resilience initiative for members of the 
     National Guard and Reserves, for two years (submitted as 
     amendment no. 429 to H.R. 2810 to the House Rules Committee).
       12) $500 million for U.S.-Israel missile defense programs 
     funded by Section 8070 of Public Law 115-245, the 
     ``Department of Defense and Labor, Health and Human Services, 
     and Education Appropriations Act, 2019''. These funds will be 
     used for the Iron Dome defense system, David's Sling system 
     components, and the Arrow-3 system.
       13) $373.8 million for Israeli Cooperative Programs with 
     the U.S. Department of Defense, which appears on page 85D of 
     the Joint Explanatory Statement for Division C of H.R. 1625, 
     the ``Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2018''.
       14) $269 million for USAID Biodiversity Conservation 
     Programs, which is provided in section 7060(c)(2)(A) of 
     Public Law 115-141, the ``Consolidated Appropriations Act, 
     2018''.
       15) $130 million for small business development under 
     Entrepreneurial Development Programs provided for on page 233 
     of Public Law 115-141, the ``Consolidated Appropriations Act, 
     2018''. This increase in funding will allow the establishment 
     of a new Small Business Development Center (SBDC) to be 
     opened in New York's Sixth Congressional District.
       16) $90.7 million for programs to combat wildlife 
     trafficking, which appears on page 68 of the Joint 
     Explanatory Statement for Division K accompanying Public Law 
     115-141, the ``Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2018''.
       17) $1 million for programs to combat anti-Semitism abroad, 
     which appears on page 44 of the Joint Explanatory Statement 
     for Division K accompanying Public Law 115-141, the 
     ``Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2018''.
       18) $300,000 increase for the Smithsonian Asian Pacific 
     American Center, which appears on page 56 of the Joint 
     Explanatory Statement for Division G accompanying Public Law 
     115-31, the ``Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2017''. These 
     funds more than tripled the Center's resources to develop 
     programs and expand outreach to promote a better 
     understanding of the Asian Pacific American experience.
       19) A conference report provision accompanying Public Law 
     115-91, the ``National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
     Year 2018'', which directs DOD to review the design, 
     material, sizing, price, availability, quality, and utility 
     of maternity uniforms for pregnant members of the military 
     (consistent with amendment no. 28 to H.R. 2810).
       20) Page 26 of House Report 115-673--''Veterans who 
     participated in nuclear clean-up activities in Palomares, 
     Spain and on Enewetak Atoll.'' (Incorporated by reference 
     into the Joint Explanatory Statement accompanying H.R. 5895, 
     the ``Energy and Water, Legislative Branch, and Military 
     Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act, 
     2019''). This provision directs the VA to determine, using 
     scientific and medical data, whether 38 CFR 3.309(d) should 
     be modified in order to allow veterans who participated in 
     nuclear clean-up activities in Palomares, Spain and on 
     Enewetak Atoll in the Marshall Islands to be presumed to be 
     exposed to radiation for disability benefits purposes.
       21) Page 27 of House Report 115-673--
     ``Cholangiocarcinoma.'' (Incorporated by reference into the 
     Joint Explanatory Statement accompanying H.R. 5895, the 
     ``Energy and Water, Legislative Branch, and Military 
     Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act, 
     2019''). This provision directs the VA to report to Congress 
     on its current research into this rare cancer that appears in 
     Vietnam veterans at higher rates than the general population, 
     and to explain why less than one-third of the claims for 
     service connected disabilities related to the disease have 
     been granted by the VA.
       22) Page 36 of House Report 115-673--``Female medical 
     staff.'' (Incorporated by reference into the Joint 
     Explanatory Statement accompanying H.R. 5895, the ``Energy 
     and Water, Legislative Branch, and Military Construction and 
     Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act, 2019''). This provision 
     directs the VA to report to Congress on the number of female 
     health care professionals hired by the Veterans Health 
     Administration each year over the last five years, including 
     information pertaining to job type and employment location, 
     so that additional female health care professionals can be 
     hired in order to provide the growing number of female 
     veterans greater opportunities to choose the gender of their 
     health care provider.
       23) Page 93 of House Report 115-697--``Carbon Capture.'' 
     (Incorporated by reference into the Joint Explanatory 
     Statement accompanying H.R. 5895, the ``Energy and Water, 
     Legislative Branch, and Military Construction and Veterans 
     Affairs Appropriations Act, 2019''). This provision directs 
     the Department of Energy to ``explore carrying out a prize 
     competition to advance the research, development, or 
     commercialization of technologies that capture, sequester, or 
     utilize carbon.''
       24) Page 97 of House Report 115-697--``Energy Information 
     Administration, Puerto Rico.'' (Incorporated by reference 
     into the Joint Explanatory Statement accompanying H.R. 5895, 
     the ``Energy and Water, Legislative Branch, and Military 
     Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act, 
     2019''). This provision urges the Energy Information 
     Administration to publish information for Puerto Rico and 
     other territories in its state profiles section in a manner 
     that is consistent with the information furnished for states.
       25) Page 150 of House Report 115-862--``Free Application 
     for Federal Student Aid.'' (Incorporated by reference into 
     the Joint Explanatory Statement accompanying H.R. 6157, the 
     ``Department of Defense and Labor, Health and Human Services, 
     and Education Appropriations Act, 2019''). This provision 
     encourages the Secretary of Education to translate the Free 
     Application for Federal Student Aid into additional foreign 
     languages.
       26) Page 55 of House Report 115-862--``Gynecologic Cancer 
     Clinical Trials.'' (Incorporated by reference into the Joint 
     Explanatory Statement accompanying H.R. 6157, the 
     ``Department of Defense and Labor, Health and Human Services, 
     and Education Appropriations Act, 2019''). This provision 
     directs the National Cancer Institute to provide Congress 
     with information on access to gynecologic cancer clinical 
     trials in order to increase future access to these life-
     saving trials.
       27) Page 156 of House Report 115-862-''Data for Puerto 
     Rico.'' (Incorporated by reference into the Joint Explanatory 
     Statement accompanying H.R. 6157, the ``Department of Defense 
     and Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education 
     Appropriations Act, 2019''). This provision directs the 
     National Center for Education Statistics to collect and 
     publish data for Puerto Rico in the same manner it collects 
     and publishes data for states so that Puerto Rico has 
     meaningful data that can be used to compare its students' 
     academic progress with students across the rest of the United 
     States.
       28) Page 58 of House Report 115-862--``Hepatitis B (1).'' 
     (Incorporated by reference into the Joint Explanatory 
     Statement accompanying H.R. 6157, the ``Department of Defense 
     and Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education 
     Appropriations Act,
     2019''). This provision directs the National Institute of 
     Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases (NIDDK) to pursue 
     improved treatments and a cure for Hepatitis B and to report 
     to Congress on its progress in the 2020 Congressional Budget 
     Justification submitted by the agency.
       29) Page 70 of House Report 115-862--``Hepatitis B (2).'' 
     (Incorporated by reference into the Joint Explanatory 
     Statement accompanying H.R. 6157, the ``Department of Defense 
     and Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education 
     Appropriations Act, 2019''). This provision directs the 
     National Institute on Minority Health and Health Disparities 
     (NIMHD) to fund research into model programs that increase 
     Hepatitis awareness, knowledge, testing, and treatment among 
     disproportionately impacted communities such as Asian 
     Americans and Pacific Islanders.
       30) Page 37 of House Report 115-862--``Viral Hepatitis.'' 
     (Incorporated by reference into the Joint Explanatory 
     Statement accompanying H.R. 6157, the ``Department of Defense 
     and Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education 
     Appropriations Act, 2019''). This provision directs the 
     Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) to report to 
     Congress within 90 days its plan to achieve the goal of 
     elimination of Hepatitis B and C--particularly within opioid 
     users.
       31) Page 67 of House Report 115-232--``Feminine Hygiene 
     Cosmetics.'' (Incorporated by reference into the Joint 
     Explanatory Statement accompanying H.R. 1625, the 
     ``Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2018''). This provision 
     strongly urges the FDA to issue appropriate guidance to 
     consumers on the use of unsafe colorants by manufacturers in 
     feminine hygiene cosmetic products.
       32) Page 16 of House Report 115-769--``Minority Outreach 
     and Officer Accessions.'' (Incorporated by reference into the 
     Joint Explanatory Statement accompanying H.R. 6157, the 
     ``Department of Defense and Labor, Health and Human Services, 
     and Education Appropriations Act, 2019 and Continuing 
     Appropriations Act, 2019''). This provision directs the 
     Secretary of Defense to improve diversity among military 
     officers.
       33) Page 285 of House Report 115-219--``Military Medical 
     Professionals and the Department of Veterans Affairs.'' 
     (Incorporated by reference into the Joint Explanatory 
     Statement accompanying H.R. 1625, the ``Consolidated 
     Appropriations Act, 2018'') . This provision directs DOD to 
     work with the VA to encourage DOD medical professionals who 
     are being discharged or are separating from the military to 
     pursue employment with the Veterans Health Administration.
       34) Page 30 of House Report 115-230--``Continuing 
     Authorities Program (CAP).'' (Incorporated by reference into 
     the Joint Explanatory Statement accompanying H.R. 1625, the 
     ``Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2018''). This provision 
     encourages the Army Corps of Engineers to pursue projects to 
     address ice floes in regions comprised of cities whose 
     historic flooding has been predominately caused by winter 
     snowmelt--cities such as those in Western and upstate New 
     York.
       35) Page 83 of the Joint Explanatory Statement accompanying 
     H.R. 1625, the ``Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2018''--
     ``Asian Pacific American Initiatives and Outreach.'' This 
     provision continues the previous year's Congressional support 
     for the Smithsonian Institution's Asian American and Pacific 
     Islander outreach and programming.
       36) Page 17 of House Report 115-199--``Expanded 
     Availability of Tours in Foreign Languages'' (Incorporated by 
     reference into the Joint Explanatory Statement accompanying 
     H.R. 1625, the ``Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2018''). 
     This provision encourages the Capitol Visitor Center to 
     explore the feasibility of making listening devices used for 
     Capitol tours available in additional foreign languages.
       37) Page 55 of House Report 115-188--``VA Retail 
     Immunization Care Coordination Program'' (Incorporated by 
     reference into the Joint Explanatory Statement accompanying 
     H.R. 1625, the ``Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2018''). 
     This provision encourages the VA to build upon the success of 
     the flu immunization program at retail locations and to 
     expand the program to also cover immunizations such as 
     pneumococcal and zoster vaccines.
       38) Page 14 of House Report 115-253--``Democracy, Human 
     Rights, and Labor (DRL)'' (Incorporated by reference into the 
     Joint Explanatory Statement accompanying H.R. 1625, the 
     ``Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2018''). This provision 
     urges the Secretary of State to appoint a Special Envoy to 
     Monitor and Combat Anti-Semitism as quickly as possible given 
     the global rise in anti-Semitic incidents.
       39) Page 49 of House Report 115-253--``Water, Sanitation, 
     and Hygiene (WASH)'' (Incorporated by reference into the 
     Joint Explanatory Statement accompanying H.R. 1625, the 
     ``Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2018''). This provision 
     directs the USAID Administrator to submit a report to 
     Congress within 90 days outlining how the provision of 
     feminine hygiene products is included in both the design and 
     implementation of WASH programs. This report will allow 
     additional directed work to be pursued to address this 
     important issue in the lives of vulnerable women and girls.
       40) Page 14 of House Report 115-237--``Noise Health Effects 
     Research'' (Incorporated by reference into the Joint 
     Explanatory Statement accompanying H.R. 1625, the 
     ``Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2018''). This provision 
     resulted from a joint Quiet Skies Caucus (which I am proud to 
     have co-founded and chaired) appropriations request letter. 
     It directs the FAA to continue to prioritize the research 
     being conducted at the Center of Excellence for Alternative 
     Jet Fuel and Environment, the Aviation Sustainability Center 
     (ASCENT) on the impact of aviation noise on both sleep and 
     cardiovascular health.
  As Appropriations Taskforce Chair for the Congressional Asian Pacific 
American Caucus (CAPAC), I was proud to lead joint appropriations 
request letters for the Caucus that resulted in the following 
provisions being signed into law:
       41) Page 31 of House Report 115-231--``Profiling.'' 
     (Incorporated by reference into the Joint Explanatory 
     Statement accompanying H.R. 1625, the ``Consolidated 
     Appropriations Act, 2018''). This provision expresses 
     Congress's concern about reports of Asian Americans and 
     Pacific Islanders being profiled by Department of Justice 
     investigators and prosecutors on the basis of race and 
     national origin, including in espionage and trade secret 
     cases. It directs an Office of Inspector General 
     investigation be conducted into the matter.
       42) Page 32 of House Report 115-231--``Civil Rights 
     Division, Voting Section.'' (Incorporated by reference into 
     the Joint Explanatory Statement accompanying H.R. 1625, the 
     ``Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2018''). This provision 
     requires the submission of a report by the Voting Section of 
     the Civil Rights Division of the Department of Justice to 
     Congress containing the number of section 203 cases 
     investigated in the past year broken out by language, 
     including the number of such investigations opened and the 
     number closed--as well as the reasons for closure.
       43) Page 15 of House Report 115-234--``CDFIs in U.S. 
     Insular Areas.'' (Incorporated by reference into the Joint 
     Explanatory Statement accompanying H.R. 1625, the 
     ``Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2018''). This provision 
     notes the absence of Community Development Financial 
     Institutions (CDFI) serving American Samoa, the Northern 
     Mariana Islands, and other insular areas, and recommends that 
     the CDFI Fund use its Capacity Building Initiative to expand 
     service to these areas.
  Additionally, I am proud to have secured passage of the following 
legislation through the U.S. House of Representatives prior to today, 
and will continue to fight to secure passage of these provisions into 
law in the future:
       1) H.R. 382, the ``100 Years of Women in Congress Act'', 
     which seeks to rename the Women and Minorities in STEM Fields 
     Program at the U.S. Department of Agriculture the ``Jeannette 
     Rankin Women and Minorities in STEM Fields Program'' in honor 
     of the 100 year anniversary of the election of the first 
     woman to Congress--Jeannette Rankin.
       2) Section 1(5) of H.R. 6846, ``To require the United 
     States Postal Service to establish new Zip codes, and for 
     other purposes,'' which would designate a single, unique ZIP 
     Code for Glendale, New York. This section stems from my bill 
     H.R. 803, ``To direct the United States Postal Service to 
     designate a single, unique ZIP Code for Glendale, New York'', 
     an effort that originated with former-Representative, and 
     Vice Presidential candidate, Geraldine Ferraro almost 40 
     years ago.
       3) Section 7(a)(2) of H.R. 6199, ``Restoring Access to 
     Medication and Modernizing Health Savings Accounts Act of 
     2018'', which would permit the purchase of menstrual hygiene 
     products with health flexible spending accounts.
       4) Section 504 of H.R. 5515, the ``John S. McCain National 
     Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019'', which would 
     allow any member of the armed forces who gives birth to be 
     exempt from deployment for up to 12 months following 
     childbirth.
       5) Section 566 of H.R. 5515, the ``John S. McCain National 
     Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019'', which would 
     require the Secretary of Defense to permit military parents 
     flexible (non-continuous) maternity and paternity leave, 
     allowing this time off to be spread out over time instead of 
     being used all at once.
       6) Section 717 of H.R. 5515, the ``John S. McCain National 
     Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019'', which would 
     authorize the Secretary of Defense to develop a burn patient 
     transfer system. This system would include military and 
     civilian burn centers that could be used in mass casualty 
     events.
       7) Section 220F of H.R. 5515, the ``John S. McCain National 
     Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019'', which would 
     authorize the Jet Noise Reduction Program within the U.S. 
     Navy's Office of Naval Research in order to reduce noise 
     produced by high performance military jets.
       8) Section 595 of H.R. 5515, the ``John S. McCain National 
     Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019'', which would 
     require the Department of Defense to create exit surveys on 
     attrition levels for members of the military in order to 
     better understand why attrition rates are higher for women 
     than for men.
       9) Section 921(b)(3) of H.R. 5515, the ``John S. McCain 
     National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019'', 
     which sought to add oversight responsibilities to the DOD 
     Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning Policy and 
     Oversight Council. The newly created Council currently has no 
     oversight requirement in its mandate. The Council will
     be responsible for overseeing the research, development, and 
     deployment of artificial intelligence and autonomous machines 
     used by the military. The provision was cosponsored by Rep. 
     Darren Soto of Florida.
       10) Section 3(a)(7) of H.R. 1638, the ``Iranian Leadership 
     Asset Transparency Act'', which would require an assessment 
     of the effectiveness of U.S. economic sanctions against Iran.
       11) Section 2 of H.R. 1367, ``To improve the authority of 
     the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to hire and retain 
     physicians and other employees of the Department of Veterans 
     Affairs and for other purposes'', which would assist the VA 
     Secretary in filling Veterans Health Administration positions 
     for which there are severe staffing shortages. Under current 
     law, the Inspector General (IG) of the VA must issue an 
     annual report on which positions within the agency are 
     severely understaffed. The VA Secretary is then granted 
     expedited hiring authority to fill those positions. This 
     provision would have permitted the IG to report on additional 
     shortages than those currently allowed by law so that the VA 
     Secretary could fill those positions more quickly as well.
       12) Section 13 of H.R. 1367, ``To improve the authority of 
     the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to hire and retain 
     physicians and other employees of the Department of Veterans 
     Affairs and for other purposes'', which would require the 
     Secretary of the VA to establish a program that encourages 
     members of the Armed Forces serving as health professionals 
     to pursue jobs with the Veterans Health Administration (VHA) 
     upon their discharge or separation from the military.
  Mr. Speaker, there is no greater honor than serving my neighbors, 
family, and friends in the United States Congress. I thank them for the 
opportunity during the 115th Congress. I wish you well in your 
retirement
                          




  Mr. LUETKEMEYER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to ask my colleagues to 
join me in congratulating the Fatima Girls Cross Country team for 
winning the 2018 Missouri Girls Class 2 State Cross Country 
Championship.
   This team and Coach Bridges should be commended for all their hard 
work throughout this past year and for bringing home the state 
championship to their school and community.
   I ask you to join me in recognizing the Fatima Girls Cross Country 
team for a job well done.
                          




  Mr. LUETKEMEYER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to ask my colleagues to 
join me in congratulating Maxwell McDaniel of the Festus Tigers for 
winning the 2018 Missouri Boys Class 3 State Cross Country 
Championship.
   Maxwell and Coach Bryant Wright should be commended for all of their 
hard work throughout this past year and for bringing home the state 
championship to their school and community.
   I ask you to join me in recognizing Maxwell McDaniel for a job well 
done.
                          




  Mr. LUETKEMEYER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to ask my colleagues to 
join me in congratulating Logan Shelfaut of the Francis Howell North 
Knights for winning the 2018 Missouri Class 2 State Diving 
Championship.
   Logan and Coach Chris Pape should be commended for all of their hard 
work throughout this past year and for bringing home the state 
championship to their school and community.
   I ask you to join me in recognizing Logan Shelfaut for a job well 
done.
                          




  Mr. LUETKEMEYER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to ask my colleagues to 
join me in congratulating the Ft. Zumwalt South Bulldogs Boys Soccer 
team for winning the 2018 Missouri Class 3 State Soccer Championship.
   This team and Coach Jim Layne should be commended for all of their 
hard work throughout this past year and for bringing home the state 
championship to their school and community.
   I ask you to join me in recognizing the Ft. Zumwalt South Bulldogs 
Boys Soccer team for a job well done.
                          




  Mr. YOUNG of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to bring remembrance to 
a great Iowan--Dale Golightly.
  Dale was a man who loved and worked hard for his family. He had a 
huge and compassionate heart who brought a quick quip and smile to all 
he met. Dale was a man of integrity who gave sage advice and wisdom who 
all could trust.
  When you met or talked to Dale, you felt special. You knew you had a 
true friend in Dale Golightly, he always had your back.
  Dale loved his wife, Vera, dearly. He was devoted to his children--
Brad, Randy, Dan, and Jean. His grandchildren and great-grandchildren 
brought him great joy. They will all carry on the good name and legacy 
he left them--a legacy of loving God, country, nature and agriculture, 
the friend, and the stranger.
  May God bless his soul. May Dale forever rest in his Saviour's arms 
in heaven.
       Sanford Dale Golightly was born June 18, 1933 at home in 
     Madison County, Iowa, the son of Jerome and Ethel (Reigle) 
     Golightly. He graduated from Van Meter High School in 1952 
     and served in the United States Army during the Korean 
     Conflict. He married Vera Jamison on June 19, 1955 at the 
     Trinity Lutheran Church in Van Meter.
       Dale came home from the service and started farming, never 
     really retiring. He was a member of the Trinity Lutheran 
     Church where he held various offices. He was on the Van Meter 
     School Board, the Booneville Co-op Board and the Madison 
     County Fair Board. Dale was a collector and enjoyed attending 
     flea markets and auctions. He enjoyed fishing with his 
     children, gardening and watching Iowa State basketball and 
     football. Above all else, Dale cherished spending time with 
     family, especially with his grandchildren.
       Dale died Tuesday, November 13, 2018 at Spurgeon Manor in 
     Dallas Center. He was 85 years old.
       Dale is survived by his wife of 63 years, Vera Golightly of 
     Van Meter; four children, Brad (Shelly) Golightly of Perry, 
     Randy (Anna) Golightly of Van Meter, Dan (Michelle) Golightly 
     of Waukee, and Jean (J.R.) Hall of Urbandale; five 
     grandchildren, Jana Ferguson, Austin (Brittney) Golightly, 
     Karlee Golightly, Jason (Angela) Mickelson and Nathan 
     Mickelson; three great-grandchildren, extended family and 
     friends.
       He was preceded in death by his parents, Jerome and Ethel 
     Golightly and a grandson, Bret Golightly




  Mr. LUETKEMEYER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to ask my colleagues to 
join me in congratulating Kendall Haller of the Fatima Comets for 
winning the 2018 Missouri Girls Class 2 State Cross Country 
Championship.
   Kendall and Coach Marc Bridges should be commended for all of their 
hard work throughout this past year and for bringing home the state 
championship to their school and community.
   I ask you to join me in recognizing Kendall Haller for a job well 
done.
                          




  Mr. COHEN. Madam Speaker, I rise today in support of the Police 
Creating Accountability by Making Effective Recording Act, also known 
as the Police CAMERA Act, a bill I introduced today with several of my 
colleagues. If enacted, this bill would establish a grant program to 
assist state and local law enforcement with the deployment of body-worn 
camera programs.
  Safe communities require good police.
  Good policing requires public trust.
  Unfortunately, in far too many communities, that trust has become 
strained.
  In the wake of recent police shootings, our nation is facing sobering 
questions about the basic fairness of our criminal justice system. We 
face sobering questions about race.
  Over the past several years, the wider availability of video has 
shined a much-needed light on police use of deadly force. Without video 
of places like North Charleston, Staten Island, Chicago, Cleveland, 
Baton Rouge, Tulsa and Falcon Heights, Minnesota the world might never 
know what occurred.
  The more we see of these types of videos, the more we are left to 
wonder about all the incidents that were not recorded.
  Had there been better video of the shooting of Darrius Stewart in my 
home town of Memphis, it might have helped to better inform the grand 
jury that, sadly, refused to indict the police officer who was 
responsible.
  Justice is supposed to be blind, but it is not supposed to be blind 
to the facts.
  Police body cameras can help provide evidence and restore some much-
needed trust.
  They can protect both police and citizens alike.
  The vast majority of police are well meaning, dedicated public 
servants, and we depend upon them to keep us safe from criminals. They 
have dangerous jobs, as we have seen all too frequently.
  But the fact remains some officers go beyond the law in a callous 
disregard for due process. Their actions damage the public trust that 
is essential for good police to be able to serve and protect our 
communities.
  Police body cameras, alone, won't solve this problem. But they are an 
important step in the right direction.
  I urge all members to help pass the Police CAMERA Act quickly.
                          




  Mr. BISHOP of Georgia. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor a great 
soldier, dedicated husband, loving father, and loyal friend to many, 
Mr. Ralph William Hall. Sadly, Mr. Hall passed away on December 18, 
2018. His funeral service will be held on January 5, 2019 at 11 am at 
St. Timothy Episcopal Church located at 3601 Alabama Avenue SE, 
Washington, D.C. 20020.
  Mr. Ralph William Hall was born on January 25, 1919, in Metcalf, 
Georgia to the union of Adam and Maggie Franklin Hall. He was the 
oldest of five children. At an early age, he moved to Thomasville, 
Georgia where he lived with his parents and maternal grandmother. 
During this time, he learned to fish, hunt, and perform farm chores. 
But, it was also during this time that his unbreakable bond with God 
was cemented. He joined St. Mark AME Church and attended every Sunday. 
He also attended Allen Normal School, a private Congregational school 
where he learned self-discipline and bible study.
  A diligent student, Ralph graduated from Douglas High School, where 
he served as Senior Class President. He went on to continue his 
education at Johnson C. Smith University in Charlotte, North Carolina, 
where he earned a degree in Mathematics in 1941. Ralph was drafted into 
the United States Army while in college, but was allowed to complete 
his degree requirements, then served faithfully for five years. He was 
discharged in 1946. He was initiated into the brotherhood of Omega Psi 
Phi Fraternity, Inc. and was a life member for 80 years until his 
passing.
  Following his discharge from the Army, his life would change forever 
as he was joined in holy matrimony with his college sweetheart, 
Virginia (Ginny) Holder.
  He moved his new family to Washington, D.C. and embarked on a career 
with the Federal Government that lasted for 35 years. During this time, 
two children were born to this union, Douglas and Angela.
  Sadly, Ginny became ill and passed in 1962. Mr. Hall was then left 
with the awesome task of being a single father. However, as with other 
challenges in his life, he was more than ready to meet this one. His 
strong and unwavering faith in God led him to become a member of the 
Jones United Methodist Church, where he proudly served as Chairman of 
the Trustee Board, where he led the completion of the Education 
Building along with serving as the Church School Superintendent.
  Another major life changing event for him occurred when he was 
introduced to Thelma Johnson by a dear Army Buddy and his wife, Milton 
and Evelyn Serailee. This led to their marriage in 1965 and the new 
family moved to Hillcrest area in Southeast Washington, D.C.
  Ralph Hall continued his love for service to humankind as a member of 
the Hillcrest Civic Association and as PTA President at Anne Beers 
Elementary School. In 1966, he and Thelma joined St. Timothy's 
Episcopal Church where he served many roles to include: Lay Reader, 
Diocensanis Delegate, Member of the Men of St. Timothy's (Most), and 
the Brotherhood of St. Andrews. He truly dedicated his life to the 
service of others. And was a constant example of sincerity, loyalty, 
and devotion to family.
  Madam Speaker, my wife Vivian and I, along with the 730,000 
constituents of the Second Congressional District of Georgia, salute 
and honor the life of Mr. Ralph William Hall. I ask my colleagues in 
the House of Representatives to join us in extending our deepest 
condolences to the Hall family during this difficult time of 
bereavement. We pray that that they will be consoled and comforted by 
an abiding faith and the Holy Spirit in the days, weeks and months 
ahead.
                          




  Ms. JACKSON LEE. Madam Speaker, I am pleased to re-introduce H.R. 40, 
the Commission to Study and Develop Reparation proposals for African-
Americans Act. This legislation was first introduced by retired Member 
of Congress John Conyers of Michigan in 1989, and was intended to 
examine the institution of slavery in the colonies and the United 
States from 1619 to the present, and further recommend appropriate 
remedies.
  Since the initial introduction of this legislation, its proponents 
have made substantial progress in elevating the discussion of 
reparations and reparatory justice at the national level and joining 
the mainstream international debate on the issues. Though some have 
tried to deflect the importance of these conversations by focusing on 
individual monetary compensation, the real issue is whether and how 
this nation can come to grips with the legacy of slavery that still 
infects current society. Through legislation, resolutions, news, and 
litigation, we are moving closer to making more strides in the movement 
toward reparations.
  Today there are more people at the table--more activists, more 
scholars, more CEO's, more state and local officials, and more Members 
of Congress. However, despite this progress and the election of the 
first American President of African descent, the legacy of slavery 
lingers heavily in this nation. While we have focused on the social 
effects of slavery and segregation, its continuing economic 
implications remain largely ignored by mainstream analysis. These 
economic issues are the root cause of many critical issues in the 
African-American community today, such as education, healthcare and 
criminal justice policy, including policing practices. The call for 
reparations represents a commitment to entering a constructive dialogue 
on the role of slavery and racism in shaping present-day conditions in 
our community and American society.
  Over the last several years, we have had a distinguished academic and 
activist panel from
the National African American Reparations Commission dive into some of 
the most salient points in the reparations discussion. I am supporting 
this effort by continuing to hold the annual reparations retrospective 
at the Annual Legislative Conference of the Congressional Black Caucus.
  I believe that H.R. 40 is a crucial piece of legislation because it 
goes beyond exploring the economic implications of slavery and 
segregation. It is a holistic bill in the sense that it seeks to 
establish a commission to also examine the moral and social 
implications of slavery. In short, the Commission aims to study the 
impact of slavery and continuing discrimination against African-
Americans, resulting directly and indirectly from slavery to 
segregation to the desegregation process and the present day. The 
commission would also make recommendations concerning any form of 
apology and compensation to begin the long delayed process of atonement 
for slavery.
  With the over criminalization and policing of black bodies, a 
reoccurring issue in African-American communities, I believe this 
conversation is both relevant and crucial to restoring trust in 
governmental institutions in many communities. As in years past, I 
welcome open and constructive discourse on H.R. 40 and the creation of 
this commission in the 116th Congress. Though the times and 
circumstance may change, the principle problem of slavery continues to 
weigh heavily on this country. A federal commission can help us reach 
into this dark past and bring us into a brighter future.
                          




  Mr. HASTINGS. Madam Speaker, I rise today to introduce the Build 
America Act, legislation that will provide $10 billion annually for 
merit-based infrastructure grants across the country. For years, House 
Democrats have called for a dramatic investment in infrastructure, and 
for years, these call calls have gone unanswered. I am hopeful that 
this will be the year that we finally make the investments we need. I 
am proud to offer my own legislation today--not for a massive, all-
encompassing infrastructure package--but rather, for a common sense 
expansion of successful programs based on need and merit that will 
ensure we put money towards the greatest infrastructure needs 
regardless of any additional package passed in the House.
  My legislation will significantly increase the size and scope of two 
existing infrastructure grant programs, the Capital Investment Grant 
Program (CIG), also known as New Starts/Small Starts, and the BUILD 
Grant Program, formerly known as the Transportation Investment 
Generating Economic Recovery Grant Program, or TIGER Grants. These 
programs have been immensely successful in the past, assisting rural 
and urban communities prioritize their own needs. Each program requires 
matching funds from those seeking assistance, making them smart and 
effective avenues for leveraging federal funding to make a real impact 
across the country.
  My bill takes these programs out of the annual appropriations 
process. Instead, it establishes them as mandatory programs with 
permanent and expanded funding streams totaling more than $10 billion 
annually.
  This expansion will be welcome news to the thousands of communities 
like those I represent. Consider this, Madam Speaker: since
2009, Congress has dedicated more than $5.1 billion for multiple rounds 
of TIGER funding. In FY2015 alone, the program received $10.1 billion 
in applications. That's twice the total amount of funding over a 10 
year period in just a single fiscal year. The process is competitive, 
and it allows the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) to reward 
applicants that exceed eligibility criteria and demonstrate commitments 
to their projects.
  By increasing these funding levels and removing the programs from the 
annual appropriations process, we will take the guesswork and 
uncertainty out of the programs. This in turn will allow communities 
around the country to submit funding requests for projects of national, 
regional, or metropolitan-area significance, including the construction 
and repair of roads, bridges, and tunnels, the installation of high 
speed internet, revitalization of drinking water infrastructure, and 
the construction and expansion of fixed-guideway public transportation 
systems, including subways, light rail, commuter rail, and bus rapid 
transit (BRT).
  Madam Speaker, we have talked about prioritizing a large-scale 
infrastructure package for years. Last Congress, Congressional 
Democrats unveiled a trillion-dollar plan to make these investments and 
create tens of thousands of jobs. However, like so many other 
proposals, it was rejected out of hand by the Republican Majority. We 
need to get serious.
  Every four years, the American Society of Civil Engineers' issues a 
``Report Card'' for America's Infrastructure. The report depicts the 
condition and performance of American infrastructure, assigning letter 
grades based on the physical condition and needed investments for 
improvement across 16 major infrastructure categories. The most recent 
report card was issued last two years ago. Among the national rankings, 
transit systems were rated a D- and roads were rated a D.
  Dams: D.
  Drinking water: D.
  Inland waterways: D.
  Levees: D.
  We need to move this process forward. I urge my colleagues to 
consider my bill without delay, so that our country can begin making 
the investments it desperately needs.
                          




  Mr. COHEN. Madam Speaker, I rise today in support of the Police 
Training and Independent Review Act, a bill I introduced today with 
colleague Lacy Clay of Missouri.
  If enacted, the Police Training and Independent Review Act would help 
ensure the independent investigation and prosecution of law enforcement 
officers in cases involving their use of deadly force. It would also 
help ensure that law enforcement officers receive appropriate training.
  America received a wakeup call in Ferguson, Missouri. We received 
another in Staten Island, New York.
  We received yet another in Ohio, South Carolina, Illinois, Minnesota, 
Louisiana and Oklahoma.
  Our nation faces sobering questions about the basic fairness of our 
criminal justice system. And we face sobering questions about race. 
These questions simply cannot be ignored.
  For too many, for too long, justice has seemed too lacking.
  President Obama's Commission on 21st Century Policing suggested 
several common sense reforms, including the use of independent 
prosecutors for police-involved civilian deaths, as well as additional 
training for law enforcement officers.
  Unfortunately, Congress has yet to act on these recommendations.
  We need to stop asking local prosecutors to investigate the same law 
enforcement officers with whom they work so closely, and whose 
relationships they rely upon to perform their daily responsibilities. 
Prosecutors also often seek the support of their local police when they 
run for reelection.
  This is an inherent conflict of interest, and if we are serious about 
restoring a sense of fairness and justice, we must remove this conflict 
immediately.
  To be sure, the vast majority of prosecutors and law enforcement 
officers are well meaning, dedicated public servants, and we depend 
upon them to keep us safe from criminals. And they have dangerous jobs, 
as we have seen all too frequently.
  But the fact remains that some officers go beyond the law in a 
callous disregard for due process. When it comes to investigating, and 
potentially prosecuting, these actions, there is often a perception of 
unfairness, and that perception poisons the public trust.
  That is bad for law enforcement as well as citizens, making their 
work more dangerous.
  The Police Training and Independent Review Act would give states an 
incentive to use independent prosecutors when police use of deadly 
force results in a civilian death. It would also give states and 
incentive to provide training to police to help them better understand 
the racial and ethnic diversity of the communities they serve, as well 
as how best to work with individuals who are disabled or mentally ill.
  If states use independent prosecutors and provide appropriate 
training, they would become eligible for additional federal funding.
  I urge my colleagues to help pass this legislation quickly, and help 
restore some much needed faith in our criminal justice system.
  I want to thank my colleague, Lacy Clay for his partnership on this 
bill. He is a tireless advocate on these issues, and I am honored to 
work with him. I also want to thank Senator Tammy Duckworth for her 
leadership on this legislation, and look forward to her introducing a 
Senate companion soon.
                          




  Mr. KEATING. Madam Speaker, I rise today in recognition of Paul 
Stewart as he is inducted by the USA Hockey Association into the USA 
Hockey Hall of Fame.
  Mr. Stewart was born and raised in Dorchester, Massachusetts, where 
he got his first pair of skates at age six, after borrowing his 
sister's figure skates too many times. He rose to playing in the 
National Hockey League for the Quebec Nordiques.
  Transitioning from a career playing in the NHL to paving the way for 
American referees, Mr. Stewart became the first American to both play 
and officiate in the National Hockey League. Following in the footsteps 
of his father and grandfather, he officiated his first game on March 
27, 1986 in his hometown rink, the Boston Garden.
  Players respected him, as he had a great respect for the players. He 
set an example for the future of NHL officiating and a new pathway for 
future referees. A testament to his strength and commitment came in the 
middle of his career, when he beat cancer and was back officiating 
within a year of his diagnosis. Outside of the regular season, Mr. 
Stewart officiated 49 Stanley Cup playoff games and two NHL All-Star 
games.
  In 2003, Mr. Stewart became the first American born referee to 
officiate 1,000 NHL regular-season games. He finished out officiating 
his 1,010th and final game right where it all started, at home in 
Boston surrounded by family and friends.
  After his trailblazing career on the ice, Mr. Stewart served as an 
ambassador for the NHL's Hockey Fights Cancer campaign. He also went on 
to be the director of the Bill Stewart Foundation, raising money for 
inner city youth sports, and the ECAC director of officiating, now 
working to break down barriers for women in the NHL. Following in the 
family profession, his two sons, McCauley and Maxwell, are both 
officiating hockey.
  Madam Speaker, I am proud to honor Mr. Paul Stewart for his 
trailblazing efforts that have changed the future of the sport, and who 
now joins his grandfather in the USA Hockey Hall of Fame. I ask that my 
colleagues join me in recognizing his hard work and dedication.
                          




  Mr. KELLY of Mississippi. Madam Speaker, I rise today to recognize 
the retirement of one of Mississippi's most devoted citizens and public 
servants, the Honorable Judge John Andrew Hatcher, Jr. Judge Hatcher, a 
native of Sunflower, Mississippi, is retiring after a long and 
distinguished career.
  Upon graduation from Drew High School in 1966, Judge Hatcher 
continued his education at Delta State University. After graduating in 
1969, he attended the University of Mississippi School of Law where he 
received his Juris Doctorate. This began Judge Hatcher's impeccable 
legal career.
  Judge Hatcher began practicing law in Booneville, Mississippi, in 
November 1973. He also took up teaching as he taught a paralegal 
program at Northeast Mississippi Community College. This led to a 
passion advocating for public service. Judge Hatcher served as the vice 
chairman of the Mississippi Council on Children from 1977 to 1979, the 
Housing Specialist with the Governor's Office of Federal, State and 
Local Programs, Division of Housing Coordinator from 1978 to 1979 and 
the Director of Yocona Area Council of Boy Scouts of America from 1979 
to 1980.
  Judge Hatcher went on to serve as the county prosecutor for Prentiss 
County, Mississippi, from 1980 to 1995. He also served as
the city prosecutor for Baldwyn, Mississippi and the city attorney for 
Marietta, Mississippi, from 1991 to 2006. During this time, he also 
began representing Farmington, Mississippi, as the city attorney. More 
recently, Judge Hatcher has served as the Chancery Court Judge of the 
First Chancery Court District of Mississippi for eleven years.
  Judge Hatcher's experiences have helped him serve in several 
leadership roles throughout his community. He was the president of the 
First Judicial District Bar Association. Along with the founding 
incorporator, director and secretary of Booneville-Prentiss County 
Parks, Inc. he currently serves as the founding incorporator, director 
and secretary of Brice's Crossroads National Battlefield Commission 
Inc. He is also the founding incorporator, director, and president of 
Lower Anderson Owners' Association Inc., and is also a very active 
member of Booneville First United Methodist Church currently on the 
pastor-parish relations committee.
  Judge Hatcher has had the love and support of his wife of 49 years, 
Kathy Hatcher. He has selflessly served the people of Mississippi for 
more than forty years. His devotion to God, America and his fellow man 
will always be remembered, and I wish him and his family many years of 
happiness.
                          




  Mr. COHEN. Madam Speaker, I rise today in support of the Streamlined 
and Improved Methods at Polling Locations and Early Voting Act, also 
known as the ``SIMPLE'' Voting Act for short that I introduced today.
  This is a scary time for voting rights. We are witnessing an assault 
on voting rights the likes of which our nation has not seen since the 
passage of the Voting Rights Act in 1965. The President has alleged 
during the 2016 and 2018 election cycles, without evidence, that there 
is widespread voter fraud in our country.
  In the name of protecting Americans from supposed in-person voter 
fraud--a fraud that is virtually non-existent--states have been 
enacting voter ID laws. The real reason for these laws, however, has 
been anything but election integrity. It has been about partisan 
politics and discrimination.
  But don't take my word for it. Take the words of legislators like the 
then-Pennsylvania House Majority Leader who boasted in 2012 that the 
state's newly enacted voter ID law would allow Mitt Romney to win his 
state. While speaking about his legislature's accomplishments, he said, 
``Voter ID, which is going to allow Governor Romney to win the state of 
Pennsylvania: done.''
  Or take the comments of a freshman Republican Wisconsin state 
representative who, while being interviewed ahead of the 2016 election, 
said, ``And now we have photo ID, and I think photo ID is going to make 
a little bit of a difference as well.''
  Or take the word of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 4th Circuit 
which said that provisions of a voter ID law in North Carolina ``target 
African Americans with almost surgical precision[.]'' According to the 
court, the law imposed cures for problems that did not exist, and 
``thus the asserted justifications cannot and do not conceal the 
State's true motivation.''
  The right to vote is the cornerstone of our democracy. It is sacred. 
Yet, sadly, we have an ugly history in this nation of efforts to limit 
people's ability to access this constitutional right.
  We need to make it easier for people to vote, not harder, and that is 
why I have introduced this bill today.
  If enacted, the SIMPLE Voting Act would require states to allow early 
voting for federal elections for at least two weeks prior to election 
day, and to the greatest extent possible ensure that polling locations 
are within walking distance of a stop on a public transportation route.
  It would also require that sufficient voting systems, poll workers 
and other election resources are provided, that wait times are fair and 
equitable for all voters across a state, and that no one be required to 
wait longer than one hour to cast a ballot at a polling place.
  None of this should be controversial. This is all common sense, or at 
least should be, to those who to want help more Americans to vote.
  I urge my colleagues to pass this bill.
                          




  Mr. VEASEY. Madam Speaker, our men and women in uniform sacrifice to 
keep our nation strong and free. They are well-trained, extraordinarily 
capable and are some of our country's best and brightest. Among their 
ranks is Major Valarie Gandy, who I want to help recognize today for 
her service to the U.S. Army Reserve and Congress.
  Major Valarie Gandy, from Sylacauga, Alabama, was selected for the 
Army's Congressional Fellowship Program in 2015. She served as a 
Defense Fellow in my office from January to December 2016. I, along 
with my staff, greatly benefitted from her expertise, assistance, and 
advisement during the year-long assignment. During that time, Major 
Gandy became a valuable member of my team and earned my confidence to 
serve as my Military Legislative Assistant.
  She served as an advisor on all matters relating to defense, 
intelligence and veteran affairs. She researched and drafted multiple 
pieces of legislation introduced to Congress, including a provision on 
equal survivor benefits for Reserve and National Guard members in the 
2017 National Defense Authorization Act.
  After her time in my office, Major Gandy became a legislative liaison 
for the Office of the Chief of Army Reserve (OCAR) Legislative Affairs 
Division, where she oversaw the military personnel, civilian employee 
and medical portfolios.
  Major Gandy facilitated my visit to the Army Reserve Center in Grand 
Prairie, Texas in 2018. Due to her outreach efforts and effective 
communication, she became a heavily relied upon resource for 
congressional offices. For her congressional contributions and efforts, 
she has been recognized by veterans and military support organizations.
  Our military personnel do not shoulder the stress and sacrifice of 
military service alone, and Major Gandy is no exception. Her husband of 
17-years, Raphael, sons, Ty and Alex, and daughter, Blayze, have stood 
proudly by her side, sacrificing time with their wife and mother while 
she fulfilled her military commitments. To them also, we offer a truly 
heartfelt thank you.
  I proudly recognize Major Valarie Gandy's years of service to our 
nation.
                          




  Mr. COHEN. Madam Speaker, I rise in support of the Fresh Start Act, a 
bill I introduced today.
  If enacted, it would allow certain individuals who have been 
convicted of nonviolent offenses, paid their debt to society, and are 
now law-abiding members of the community to petition courts to have 
their nonviolent conviction expunged from their records.
  A criminal record, even for a minor, nonviolent offense, can pose as 
a barrier to employment, education and housing opportunities--the very 
things necessary to start one's life over.
  This is not only bad for rehabilitated offenders, it is bad for their 
families and for the communities in which they live.
  The Fresh Start Act would give nonviolent offenders a chance to start 
over again, a chance to become productive members of society.
  The bill allows offenders to apply for expungement to the court where 
they were sentenced and allows the United States Attorney for that 
district to submit recommendations to the court. Applicants who are 
denied could reapply once every two years. Once seven years have 
elapsed since an offender has completed their sentence, expungement 
would be automatically granted. However, sex offenders and those who 
commit crimes causing a loss of over $25,000 would not be eligible for 
automatic expungement.
  Finally, the bill would also encourage states to pass their own 
expungement laws for state offenses. States that pass a substantially 
similar law would receive a 5 percent increase in their Byrne Justice 
Assistance Grant funding while those that do not would lose 5 percent 
of their Byrne funds.
  It is one thing to convict someone of a nonviolent crime. It is quite 
another to condemn him to a de facto life sentence for it.
  I urge my colleagues to support this bill.
                          




  Mr. COHEN. Madam Speaker, the fact that after the Michael Brown 
shooting in Ferguson, the Eric Garner killing in Staten Island, and so 
many other, similar tragic events around the country, we still don't 
have reliable statistics about when, where and against whom law 
enforcement uses deadly force is shameful.
  Even former FBI Director James Comey has said it is ``ridiculous that 
[he] can't tell you how many people were shot by the police last week, 
last month, last year.''
  If we are serious about addressing excessive force, we need to know 
the full scope of the problem. For example, how often is deadly force 
used? Are minorities disproportionately the victims? Could other, non-
lethal measures have been taken?
  That is why today I am introducing the National Statistics on Deadly 
Force Transparency Act. It would require collection of this type of 
information. Although a provision of the 1994 Crime Bill requires the 
Attorney General to collect statistics on the use of excessive force, 
there is no enforcement mechanism and the federal government has been 
unable to gather data from many local police departments. Since 
excessive force can be difficult to define, this bill would be limited 
to just instances where deadly force is used.
  Specifically, this legislation would require any law enforcement 
agency receiving federal funds to provide data to the Department of 
Justice on when each instance of deadly force occurred, including the 
race and gender of both the victim and the officer involved. It would 
also require an explanation as to why law enforcement felt deadly force 
was justified and any non-lethal efforts that were taken before deadly 
force was used.
  The Department of Justice would make this data publicly available but 
would not disclose any personally identifying information.
  This is information the public should already have. The fact we don't 
is absurd. I urge my colleagues to fix this problem and pass the 
National Statistics on Deadly Force Transparency Act without delay.
                          




  Mr. COHEN. Madam Speaker, I rise today in support of the Nationally 
Enhancing the Wellbeing of Babies through Outreach and Research Now 
(NEWBORN) Act, a bill I introduced today.
  In 2016, Tennessee had almost 600 children die before their first 
birthday, including over 120 in Shelby County. Shelby County's infant 
mortality rate was 9.3 per 1,000 live births, which was a 13 percent 
increase over 2015 and significantly higher than both Tennessee's rate 
of 7.4 percent and the national rate of 5.9 percent.
  In the United States, our infant mortality rate is comparable to 
countries like Bosnia, Chile, and Cuba, and an American child is 76 
percent more likely to die before their first birthday in America than 
in 19 other wealthy nations, including Australia, Canada, France, 
Sweden, Switzerland and the United Kingdom.
  Even more concerning is the racial and ethnic infant mortality 
disparities that continue to exist. In 2016, the rates for infant 
mortality was nearly double for African American infants compared to 
white infants in Tennessee.
  This is unacceptable. That's why I am introducing the NEWBORN Act.
  If enacted, the NEWBORN Act would create infant mortality-focused 
pilot programs in the highest-risk areas of the country.
  The pilot programs would focus on addressing one or more of the top 
five reasons for infant mortality: birth defects, preterm birth and low 
birth weight, sudden infant death syndrome, maternal pregnancy 
complications, and injuries to the infant.
  The NEWBORN Act would specifically encourage the development of 
community-specific practices to promote pre-natal care and community 
outreach and education.
  The current infant mortality rates are tragic, but good practices can 
improve health and save lives.
  I urge my colleagues to help pass this bill.
  
                          




  Mr. CASTRO of Texas. Madam Speaker, I rise today to recognize the 
life and legacy of Mr. Paul Elizondo, who passed away on December 27, 
2018. Mr. Elizondo was a fellow San Antonio resident and public servant 
who dedicated his life to others. He is survived by his wife, Irene, 3 
sons and 3 granddaughters. He will be greatly missed.
  Mr. Elizondo studied Music Education at St. Mary's University. In 
1957, he joined the United States Marine Corps and served 2 years. A 
skilled saxophone player, he carried an appreciation for music 
throughout his life. For 14 years, Mr. Elizondo taught music at the San 
Antonio and Edgewood Independent School Districts. He was Director of 
the Paul Elizondo Orchestra for 50 years. His orchestra was enjoyed by 
the community for many years.
  Mr. Elizondo was a meaningful force for progress in our community. In 
1978, Mr. Elizondo was elected to the Texas House of Representatives 
where he served two terms and was a member of the House Committee on 
State Affairs and the House Committee on Public Education. In 1982, he 
was first elected to the Bexar County Commissioners Court, later being 
elected to serve an unprecedented 10th term as Commissioner for 
Precinct 2, making him the longest serving member of the five-person 
Commissioners Court.
  Mr. Elizondo was known as a no-nonsnse individual whose commitment to 
policy was only matched by his strong sense of humor. He led 
incremental health care and criminal justice programs. He was strong 
advocate for mental health services throughout the county. He was 
instrumental in major infrastructure and safety projects such as the 
Bexar County flood control program. Mr. Elizondo's presence in the 
community extended beyond the Court. Notably, he assisted in bringing 
critical development to the Westside of San Antonio.
  To many, Mr. Elizondo was considered a mentor who dedicated over 30 
years to public service. His institutional recollection of many county 
matters will be sorely missed. Bexar County was well served by 
Commissioner Paul Elizondo.
  I am proud to have known this great individual. The passing of Mr. 
Paul Elizondo has been greatly felt throughout our community. However, 
I am confident that his impact will last for many years to come.
                          




  Mr. BISHOP of Georgia. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor a 
dedicated woman of God, great wife, steadfast mother, and friend of 
longstanding, Mrs. Johnnie Lee Brown Collier. Sadly, Mrs. Collier 
passed away on December 27, 2018. Her funeral service will be held on 
Thursday, January 3, 2019 at 11 am at the Fourth Street Missionary 
Baptist Church in Columbus, Georgia.
  Mrs. Johnnie Lee Brown Collier was born on October 22, 1926, in 
Columbus, Georgia to the union of Cleola Daniel Brown and Daniel Brown, 
Sr. She gave her life to Christ and was baptized at an early age at 
Rosehill Memorial Baptist Church. From that time on, God continued to 
be the center of her life until her passing. She served as the Sunday 
School Superintendent and Church Clerk at Rosehill before moving her 
membership to the Fourth Street Missionary Baptist Church in 1957. Her 
first pastor at Fourth Street was the late Reverend Henry Harris. Mrs. 
Collier paved the way for others as she was the first Church Secretary 
at Fourth Street. She was a natural and gifted leader as she served in 
a variety of leadership positions at Fourth Street to include the 
Deacon's Wives (she served as Chairperson for two terms), Pi Com 
Community Leader in Zebulon Community, Women's Day Speaker, 1961, 
Chairperson of Program and Pastoral Relations Committee, and was the 
Roast and Toast Honoree in 1996.
  Mrs. Collier was the epitome of a great wife and mother. She married 
the late Deacon Samuel Lee Collier on April 26, 1950. God blessed this 
union for 34 years until Deacon Collier's untimely death on May 27, 
1984. Six children were born to this union to include two sets of twins 
out: Bernice Collier Collins, Bernard Collier (deceased), Agnes Collier 
Averett, Samuel Lee Collier, Jr., Michelle Collier McLain, and Michael 
Collier. Fred Rogers once said that, ``It's not so much what you have 
in life that matters, It's what we do with what we have.'' Mrs. Collier 
did a lot for others with what she had. In addition to her own 
children, she served as a mother figure to her siblings and countless 
others she found in need of guidance and a helping hand.
  Former Congresswoman Shirley Chisholm once said that, ``Service is 
the rent that we pay for the space that we occupy here on this earth.'' 
Mrs. Collier paid her rent and she paid it well. She served in a 
variety of community organizations to include: Electric City Chapter 
482 of the Order of the Eastern Stars (Worthy Matron), Spencer High 
Alumni (Class of 1943), and she was a Muscogee County Board of 
Elections Voting Precinct Manager and she traveled to various state 
conventions to further her knowledge of the voting process. She was 
also an entrepreneur and a photographer. Her professional career took 
her to the Medical Center, the Area Mental Health Clinic, and the 
Enrichment Services Program. Her benevolence extended throughout the 
community and she often used her influence and networking to help 
others to find gainful employment.
  Madam Speaker, my wife Vivian and I, along with the more than 730,000 
constituents of the Second Congressional District of Georgia, salute 
and honor the life of Mrs. Johnnie Lee Brown Collier. I ask my 
colleagues in the House of Representatives to join us in extending our 
deepest condolences to Mrs. Collier's family during this time of 
bereavement. We pray that they will be consoled and comforted by an 
abiding faith and the Holy Spirit in the days, weeks and months ahead.
                          




  Mr. COHEN. Madam Speaker, I rise in support of the John Tanner 
Fairness and Independence in Redistricting Act, a bill I introduced 
today.
  In most states, districts are drawn by the state legislature, and as 
a result, whichever party controls the state legislature ends up 
drawing Congressional districts specifically designed to maximize the 
number of Congressional seats that party can win.
  In other words, the elected officials choose the voters, instead of 
the voters choosing the elected officials.
  If enacted, the John Tanner Fairness and Independence in 
Redistricting Act would fix this by requiring states to use bipartisan 
redistricting commissions to draw maps. No single party would get to 
control the process.
  Historically, both parties have engaged in gerrymandering to some 
extent or another. But that does not make it right.
  In a representative democracy, the people need be able to freely and 
fairly choose their elected representatives.
  Unfortunately, that is not always happening.
  This is not what the Founders envisioned. They designed the House of 
Representatives to be the Congressional chamber that most accurately 
reflects the views of the people.
  The failure of the House to more accurately reflect the will of the 
electorate is a formula for the electorate to lose faith in the 
institution. It makes people cynical and discourages them from 
participating.
  We can do better.
  A democracy is supposed to be marketplace of ideas. The playing field 
is supposed to be fair and competitive, not gerrymandered and 
monopolized.
  I urge my, colleagues to pass this bill, and help restore some much 
needed faith in Congress.
                          




  Ms. NORTON. Madam Speaker, I rise today to introduce the Washington, 
D.C. Admission Act with 156 original cosponsors, a record number. This 
is the most important bill I introduce each Congress. District of 
Columbia residents have always been citizens of the United States, 
ranking number one in federal taxes per capita that support the federal 
government, but are the only federal income taxpaying Americans who do 
not have full and equal citizenship rights. The denial of local control 
of local matters and of equal representation in the Congress can be 
remedied only by statehood.
  Therefore, I am introducing the Washington, D.C. Admission Act to 
create a state from essentially the eight home-town wards of the 
District. This 51st state, of course, would have no jurisdiction over 
the federal enclave that now consists of the Washington that Members of 
Congress and visitors associate with the capital of our country. The 
U.S. Capitol Complex, the principal federal monuments, federal 
buildings and grounds, the National Mall, the White House, and other 
federal property here would remain under federal jurisdiction. Our bill 
provides that the State of Washington, D.C. would be equal to the other 
50 states in all respects, as is always required, and that the 
residents of Washington, D.C. would have all the rights of citizenship, 
including two senators and, initially, one House member. The District 
recognizes that it can enter the Union only on an equal basis, and is 
prepared to do so.
  A substantially similar version of the Washington, D.C. Admission Act 
was the first bill I introduced after I was first sworn in as a Member 
of Congress in the 102nd Congress in 1991. Our first try for statehood 
received significant support in the House. In 1993, we got the first 
and only vote on statehood for the District, with nearly 60 percent of 
Democrats and one Republican voting for the bill. The Senate held a 
hearing on various approaches to representation, but the committee of 
jurisdiction did not proceed further. In the 113th Congress, our 
statehood bill got unprecedented momentum with the Senate's first-ever 
hearing on statehood, which was the first congressional hearing held on 
statehood in more than 20 years, since the House held its hearing on 
statehood in 1993, and obtained a record number of cosponsors in the 
House and Senate, including then-Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, as 
well as the other top three Democratic leaders in the Senate. In 
addition, then-President Obama endorsed D.C. statehood in a public 
forum before the statehood hearing was held. In the 115th Congress, not 
only was there a record number of original cosponsors in the House 
(116) and Senate (18), but also a record number of cosponsors in the 
House (181) and Senate (30).
  Statehood is the only solution for full and equal citizenship rights 
for residents of the District. To be content with less than statehood 
is to concede the equality of citizenship that is the birthright of our 
residents as citizens of the United States. That is a concession no 
American citizen has ever made, and one that D.C. residents will not 
make as they approach the 218th year in their fight for equal treatment 
in their country. This bill reaffirms our determination to obtain each 
and every right enjoyed by citizens of the United States, by becoming 
the 51st State in the Union.
  Since the founding of the nation, District residents have always 
carried all the obligations of citizenship, including serving in all of 
the nation's wars and payment of federal taxes, all without voting 
representation on the floor in either house of Congress or freedom from 
congressional interference in purely local matters.
  I strongly urge my colleagues to support this legislation.
                          




  Mr. COHEN. Madam Speaker, I rise today to introduce the Compassionate 
Access, Research Expansion and Respect States Act, also known as the 
CARERS Act. This bipartisan bill would allow states to set their own 
policies on medical marijuana, allow states to import cannabidiol to 
treat patients with seizures, give the Veterans Administration 
physicians the ability to recommend medical marijuana to patients and 
improve opportunities for research on marijuana.
  The consensus on medical marijuana is already overwhelming and 
continues to build. According to a Quinnipiac University poll, 93 
percent of Americans believe people should be allowed to use medically 
prescribed marijuana.
  93 percent of Americans rarely agree on anything.
  In November, Missouri and Utah joined a growing majority of states 
that have legalized medical marijuana. Thirty-two states plus the 
District of Columbia have approved medical marijuana.
  Yet, our federal laws continue to treat patients and the doctors and 
families who care for them like criminals.
  It is long overdue for our federal law to reflect the common sense 
views of 93 percent of Americans and stop adding to the suffering of 
those with horrible illnesses.
  One such patient was my constituent, Chloe Grauer. At 3 years old, 
Chloe suffered from a rare neurological disease that caused her to have 
100 to 200 seizures a day. She tried dozens of medications and 
underwent surgical procedures but nothing stopped the seizures.
  Her family tried desperately to treat her with cannabidiol--also 
known as ``Charlotte's Web'' or ``CBD'' for short--which has been shown 
to treat certain diseases that cause seizures, such as the disease from 
which Chloe suffered. CBD is derived from cannabis plants, and even 
though it contains just trace amounts of the psychoactive ingredient in 
marijuana--nowhere near enough to produce a high--but it is currently 
illegal under federal law. Even this tiny amount of the ingredient, 
THC, was enough for the federal government to keep a potentially life-
saving drug away from Chloe.
  Chloe died without receiving CBD.
  This should never have happened. We must ensure that this never 
happens again.
  Just as our children deserve to be treated compassionately, so, too, 
do our veterans. Federal law currently prohibits VA doctors from 
prescribing medical marijuana when they feel it is medically 
beneficial. Our veterans deserve the best medical advice from their 
doctors, not arbitrary limits on what their doctors can do to help 
them. Veterans are tough. They can handle frank advice from their 
doctors.
  I want to thank my colleague Don Young of Alaska, for his partnership 
on this bill as well as Senator Cory Booker and the bipartisan 
coalition he is leading in the Senate on these issues. I urge both the 
House and Senate to pass this swiftly.
                          




  Mr. BLUMENAUER. Madam Speaker, today, I am once again reintroducing 
the Columbia River In-Lieu and Treaty Fishing Access Sites Improvement 
Act. Last Congress we came so close to making this bill into law--
passing it in the Senate and reporting it out of the House Natural 
Resources Committee. I am committed to finally passing this bill to 
improve the living conditions at the 31
Columbia River In-Lieu and Treaty Fishing Access Sites along the 
Columbia River.
  This legislation calls for the Bureau of lndian Affairs (BIA) to 
conduct a much-needed assessment of current conditions at the In-Lieu 
and Treaty Fishing Access sites under BIA ownership on both sides of 
the Columbia, in coordination with the four Columbia River treaty 
tribes: the Warm Springs, Umatilla, Nez Perce, and Yakama Nation. It 
authorizes the BIA to improve existing federal structures and 
infrastructure, improve sanitation and safety conditions, and increase 
access to electricity, sewer, and water infrastructure. BIA may 
contract with tribes and tribal organizations to conduct this important 
work that will lay a critical foundation for the construction of 
permanent tribal housing.
  Congress must do more to help members of these four tribes who reside 
here after being displaced by decades ago by the construction of the 
Columbia River Dams and who never received the permanent replacement 
housing that was promised to them by the federal government. Those 
tribes have a treaty-protected right to fish along the river at their 
usual and accustomed places that must be respected.
  I will continue to work with federal partners and tribal nations to 
see that the need for more permanent housing is fulfilled and tribal 
member's treaty rights are respected. In the meantime, Congress must 
improve the living conditions for the affected treaty tribe members, 
and we must pass this bill.
                          




  Mr. KEATING. Madam Speaker, I rise today in recognition of the 
retirement of Chief Peter Carnes, the Chief of Police and Director of 
Campus Safety at Stonehill College.
  Chief Carnes has devoted his life to serving and protecting the 
people and communities across Massachusetts. He began his illustrious 
career with the Wenham Police Department in 1973. Chief Carnes 
progressed through the ranks, becoming Wenham's chief of police.
  In 1995, Chief Carnes took on the task of heading up Cape Cod's third 
largest Police Department as Yarmouth's Chief of Police. He brought 
considerable positive change to the department during his time there. 
His citizen's police academy and Adopt-A-School programs played an 
essential role in bringing together the police department amd the 
community through education. Beyond a career serving others, Chief 
Carnes still calls Cape Cod home, living in Yarmouth with his wife 
Karen and their son.
  Chief Carnes took up his current post as Chief of Police and Director 
of Campus Safety at Stonehill College in 2008. He has embraced a 
proactive approach to safety and policing, engaging with and learning 
from the communities he serves. Chief Carnes' innovative approach to 
policing has continued to put him at the forefront of his field.
  Unrelenting in his commitment to advancing the cause of policing and 
its principles, in addition to serving faithfully as Chief of Police at 
the Wenham, Yarmouth, and Stonehill police departments, Chief Carnes 
has led many of Massachusetts' most prodigious non-departmental 
policing bodies. He served as the President of the Massachusetts 
Chief's of Police Association, The Essex County Chiefs of Police 
Association and the Cape Cod Chiefs Council. Chief Carnes' preeminence 
has allowed him to spread his community centered brand of policing to 
departments across Massachusetts. He has repeatedly exemplified the 
highest ideals of his profession throughout his years of leadership.
  Madam Speaker, I am proud to honor Chief Peter Carnes and his 
commitment to ensuring the safety of our community. I ask that my 
colleagues join me in recognizing his hard work and dedication as he 
celebrates his retirement.
                          




  Mr. COHEN. Madam Speaker, I rise today in support of a constitutional 
amendment I introduced today to eliminate the electoral college and 
provide for the direct election of our nation's President and Vice 
President.
  As Founding Father Thomas Jefferson said, ``I am not an advocate for 
frequent changes in laws and constitutions, but laws and institutions 
must go hand in hand with the progress of the human mind. As that 
becomes more developed, more enlightened, as new discoveries are made, 
new truths discovered and manners and opinions change, with the change 
of circumstances, institutions must advance also to keep pace with the 
times. We might well as require a man to wear still the coat which 
fitted him when a boy as civilized society to remain ever under the 
regimen of their barbarous ancestors.''
  In 2016, for the second time in recent memory, and for the fifth time 
in our history, the national popular vote winner did not become 
President because of the Electoral College. This has happened twice to 
candidates from Tennessee: Al Gore and Andrew Jackson.
  The reason is because the Electoral College, established to prevent 
an uninformed citizenry from directly electing our nation's President, 
no longer fits our nation's needs.
  When the Founders established the Electoral College, it was in an era 
of limited nationwide communication. The electoral structure was 
premised on a theory that citizens would have a better chance of 
knowing about electors from their home states than about presidential 
candidates from out-of-state. Electors were supposed to be people of 
good judgment who were trusted with picking a qualified President and 
Vice President on behalf of the people. They held the responsibility of 
choosing a President because it was believed that the general public 
could not be properly informed of the candidates and the values each 
held.
  That notion--that citizens should be prevented from directly electing 
the President--is antithetical to our understanding of democracy today, 
and our electoral process has not evolved to match our abilities to 
communicate, collect information, and make informed decisions about 
candidates. The development of mass media and the internet has made 
information about presidential candidates easily accessible to U.S. 
citizens across the country and around the world. The people no longer 
need the buffer of the electoral college to be knowledgeable about and 
decide who will be president. Today, citizens have a far better chance 
of knowing about out-of-state presidential candidates than knowing 
about presidential electors from their home states. Most people do not 
even know who their electors are.
  While our ability to communicate has evolved so has the Electoral 
College, but not in a positive way. Electors are now little more than 
rubber stamps who are chosen based on their political parties and who 
represent the interests of those political parties, rather than 
representing the people. Most states legally bind their electors to 
vote for whomever wins that state's popular vote, so electors can no 
longer exercise individual judgment when selecting a candidate.
  In our country, ``We the People,'' are supposed to determine who 
represents us in elective office. Yet, we use an anachronistic process 
for choosing who will hold the highest offices in the land.
  It is time for us to fix this, and that is why I have introduced this 
amendment today.
  Since our nation first adopted our Constitution, ``We the People,'' 
have amended it repeatedly to expand the opportunity for citizens to 
directly elect our leaders:
  The 15th Amendment guarantees the right of all citizens to vote, 
regardless of race.
  The l9th Amendment guarantees the right of all citizens to vote, 
regardless of gender.
  The 26th Amendment guarantees the right of all citizens 18 years of 
age and older to vote.
  And the 17th Amendment empowers citizens to directly elect U.S. 
Senators.
  We need to amend our Constitution to empower citizens to directly 
elect the President and the Vice President of the United States.
  Working together, I know we can make our Constitution better reflect 
the ``more perfect Union'' to which it aspires.
                          




  Mr. KEATING. Madam Speaker, I rise today in recognition of Mrs. Irene 
Miller she who turned 110 years young on December 28, 2018.
  Mrs. Miller has been a lifelong resident of New Bedford, 
Massachusetts. When asked about her growing up, she reminisced about 
her favorite childhood activities, sliding down Weld Street whenever it 
snowed and playing hopscotch. She married her first boyfriend and 
together they celebrated over fifty years of marriage. They went on to 
have two children, Paul and Marcia, and a continually growing family. 
Mrs. Miller now lives with her grandson.
  Born in 1908, Mrs. Miller has lived through countless historical 
events, including eight of the nine World Series victories of her 
beloved Red Sox. In her free time, she loves to read and is described 
by friends as an absolute joy who brings happiness to everyone around 
her. She is known as ``everyone's grandma,'' treating all her friends 
like family, and for her wittiness, humor, and laughter.
  To celebrate her 110th birthday, she wishes for everyone to be happy, 
which is how she lives each day. We could all benefit by learning from 
Mrs. Miller's approach to life.
  Madam Speaker, I am proud to honor Irene Miller for a lifetime spent 
making her community a better place. I ask that my colleagues join me 
in wishing her a happy birthday and many more years of health and 
happiness.
                          




  Mr. KELLY of Mississippi. Madam Speaker, I rise today to recognize 
the retirement of Judge Charlie Brett. Judge Brett, a native of Lee 
County, Mississippi, is retiring after a long and distinguished career.
  Upon graduation from Kosciusko High School, Judge Brett attended 
Mississippi State University where he graduated in 1968. Following his 
graduation, Judge Brett answered the call to serve his country and 
joined the United States Army where he served from 1969 to 1971. He 
then attended the University of Mississippi Law School where he earned 
his Juris Doctorate. During Judge Brett's time at law school he 
received several honors and served on the Moot Court Board.
  This was the beginning of Judge Brett's long career. He served four 
years as the Prosecutor for the City of Tupelo and fourteen years as 
Lee County Prosecuting Attorney and Youth Court Prosecutor. Judge Brett 
has
served sixteen plus years as County Court Judge and Youth Court Judge 
and retired as the longest serving County Court Judge in Lee County, 
Mississippi.
  Judge Brett also served six years on the Mississippi Judicial 
Performance Commission and has been the Secretary of the Mississippi 
County Court and Youth Court Judges Conference for twelve years.
  Judge Brett's love for his country and community is evident but falls 
short of his love for his family. He is married to Vicky Brett and the 
father of four daughters, Melanie, Jennifer, Lindsay, and Kayty. He is 
also the grandfather of seven grandchildren and the great grandfather 
of three great grandchildren.
  Judge Brett is also very involved in his community outside of the 
court room. He is a member of the Community Development Foundation, and 
avid hunter, sportsman and target shooter and strongly supports many 
youth and conservations groups including the Boy Scouts, National Wild 
Turkey Federation, Jakes Program, and the NRA.
  Judge Brett has selflessly served the people of Mississippi for more 
than thirty years. His devotion to God, America and his fellow man will 
always be remembered, and I wish him and his family many years of 
happiness.
                          




  Mr. HIGGINS of Louisiana. Madam Speaker, I was unavoidably detained. 
Had I been present, I would have voted on Roll Call No. 1.
                          




  Mr. COHEN. Madam Speaker, I rise today in support of a constitutional 
amendment I introduced today with several of my colleagues to prevent 
the President of the United States from pardoning himself, members of 
his family, members of his administration or members of his 
presidential campaign.
  The pardon power is supposed to be a safety valve against injustice. 
It is not supposed to be a way for presidents to put themselves, their 
families and members of their administration above the law.
  Unless we change the Constitution, however, this is how it could be 
used.
  There are already serious questions swirling around the current 
President, his family and members of his administration--including 
possible collusion with Russia during the 2016 presidential election, 
which is currently being investigated by Special Counsel Robert 
Mueller.
  To ensure that everyone is treated equally under the law, we need to 
amend the Constitution to narrow the scope of the pardon power.
  I urge my colleagues to pass this amendment without delay.




  Mr. GRAVES of Louisiana. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor the 
life and memory of Mr. Ellis Collins, Jr., affectionately known among 
family and friends as ``Toby.'' Born on July 2, 1973, to parents Emma 
J. Collins and Ellis Collins, Sr., Toby lived a remarkable life 
dedicated to his country and his education. He enlisted in the United 
States Air Force at the age of 18, receiving several accolades 
throughout his service, including the Air Force Training Ribbon, the 
National Defense Service Medal, the Air Force Outstanding Unit Award, 
and the Air Force Good Conduct Medal. Upon completing his military 
duties, he enrolled at Southern University & A&M College in Baton 
Rouge, Louisiana, and earned a baccalaureate degree in Computer 
Science. He continued his studies at Louisiana State University and 
earned a Master's of Business Administration in December 2013. Toby's 
service to his country and commitment to bettering himself and those 
around him is an inspiration to us all. He was a beloved friend, son, 
student, and patriot. He will be dearly missed.
                          




  Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD. Madam Speaker, pursuant to House Resolution 5, I 
call up the joint resolution (H.J. Res. 1) making further continuing 
appropriations for the Department of Homeland Security for fiscal year 
2019, and for other purposes, and ask for its immediate consideration.
  The Clerk read the title of the joint resolution.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to House Resolution 5, the joint 
resolution is considered read.
  The text of the joint resolution is as follows:
                              H.J. Res. 1
       Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
     United States of America in Congress assembled,
       Section 1. The Continuing Appropriations Act, 2019 
     (division C of Public Law 115-245) is further amended--
       (1) in section 105--
       (A) in paragraph (2), by striking ``or'' at the end;
       (B) in paragraph (3)--
       (i) by inserting ``except as provided in paragraph (4),'' 
     before ``December''; and
       (ii) by striking the period at the end and inserting ``; 
     or''; and
       (C) by adding at the end the following:
       ``(4) with respect to appropriations and funds made 
     available, and other authorities granted, pursuant to section 
     101(5) of this joint resolution for the Department of 
     Homeland Security, February 8, 2019.''; and
       (2) in section 110, by adding at the end the following:
       ``(c) With respect to mandatory payments whose budget 
     authority was provided in the Department of Homeland Security 
     Appropriations Act, 2018 (division F of Public Law 115-141), 
     subsections (a) and (b) shall be applied by substituting 
     `section 105(4)' for `section 105(3)' each place it 
     appears.''.
       Sec. 2. (a) Employees furloughed as a result of a lapse in 
     appropriations beginning on or about December 22, 2018, and 
     ending on the date of the enactment of this joint resolution 
     shall be compensated at their standard rate of compensation, 
     for the period of such lapse in appropriations, as soon as 
     practicable after such lapse in appropriations ends.
       (b) For purposes of this section, ``employee'' means any 
     Federal employee whose salary and expenses are provided by 
     the amendment made by section 1(1)(C).
       (c) All obligations incurred in anticipation of the 
     appropriations made and authority granted by this joint 
     resolution for the purposes of maintaining the essential 
     level of activity to protect life and property and bringing 
     about orderly termination of Government functions, and for 
     purposes as otherwise authorized by law, are hereby ratified 
     and approved if otherwise in accord with the provisions of 
     this joint resolution.
       Sec. 3. (a) If a State (or another Federal grantee) used 
     State funds (or the grantee's non-Federal funds) to continue 
     carrying out a Federal program or furloughed State employees 
     (or the grantee's employees) whose compensation is advanced 
     or reimbursed in whole or in part by the Federal Government--
       (1) such furloughed employees shall be compensated at their 
     standard rate of compensation for such period;
       (2) the State (or such other grantee) shall be reimbursed 
     for expenses that would have been paid by the Federal 
     Government during such period had appropriations been 
     available, including the cost of compensating such furloughed 
     employees, together with interest thereon calculated under 
     section 6503(d) of title 31, United States Code; and
       (3) the State (or such other grantee) may use funds 
     available to the State (or the grantee) under such Federal 
     program to reimburse such State (or the grantee), together 
     with interest thereon calculated under section 6503(d) of 
     title 31, United States Code.
       (b) For purposes of this section, the term ``State'' and 
     the term ``grantee'', including United States territories and 
     possessions, shall have the meaning given such terms under 
     the applicable Federal program under subsection (a). In 
     addition, ``to continue carrying out a Federal program'' 
     means the continued performance by a State or other Federal 
     grantee, during the period of a lapse in appropriations, of a 
     Federal program that the State or such other grantee had been 
     carrying out prior to the period of the lapse in 
     appropriations.
       (c) The authority under this section applies with respect 
     to the period of a lapse in appropriations beginning on or 
     about December 22, 2018, and ending on the date of enactment 
     of this joint resolution with respect to the Department of 
     Homeland Security which, but for such lapse in 
     appropriations, would have paid, or made reimbursement 
     relating to, any of the expenses referred to in this section 
     with respect to the program involved. Payments and 
     reimbursements under this authority shall be made only to the 
     extent and in amounts provided in advance in appropriations 
     Acts.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to House Resolution 5, the 
gentlewoman from California (Ms. Roybal-Allard) and the gentlewoman 
from Texas (Ms. Granger) each will control 15 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from California.
                             General Leave
  Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD. Madam Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that all 
Members have 5 legislative days to revise and extend their remarks and 
include extraneous material on the measure under consideration.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentlewoman from California?
  There was no objection.
  Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.
  Madam Speaker, today is the beginning of the 116th Congress. The 
first and most basic responsibility this House has is to reopen our 
government to serve the needs of the American people. The greatest 
obstacle in keeping the government open has been disagreements on how 
to spend Homeland Security dollars. That is why, in the best interests 
of the country, it makes sense to reopen the government by passing the 
remaining six bipartisan funding bills for fiscal year 2019 and to 
reopen the Department of Homeland Security through a short-term 
continuing resolution.
  The resolution before us would do just that. It would reopen the 
Department of Homeland Security through February 8 of this year. This 
would give us time to negotiate a DHS funding bill for the rest of the 
fiscal year based on the most current needs assessment, such as meeting 
the housing needs of children in border custody.
  The ability to reach a full-year funding bill for the Department of 
Homeland Security will not be possible, however, if the President is 
unwilling to change his focus from a campaign promise to one that 
realistically addresses the most urgent and immediate national security 
vulnerabilities our homeland faces today.
  This means any serious discussion of Homeland Security investments 
must include funding for hiring more law enforcement agents to focus on 
opioid, gang, trade, and child exploitation investigations; funding for 
the hiring of additional customs officers to intercept illicit drugs 
and other contraband, almost all of which comes into our country 
through the ports of entry.
  It must also include investing more in first responder grants to 
better prepare States and localities to prevent and respond to 
terrorism and disasters of every kind.
  It must contain funding for the recapitalization of the Coast Guard's 
air and sea fleets, including funding for the procurement of our first 
heavy icebreaker since the 1970s, because, as the Arctic ice recedes, 
Russia, China, and other countries are winning the race to lay claim to 
the vast resources of that region.
  While border security is important, it is only one of many pieces of 
the Homeland Security mission, which includes criminal investigations, 
first responder preparedness, disaster response, the protection of our 
cyber networks, and the protection of our critical infrastructure, 
coastal waters, and our air and surface transportation systems. These 
must also be funding priorities if we are to protect our homeland. Yet 
every dollar set aside for a border wall is a dollar lost to our 
ability to meet these and our other most pressing and critical Homeland 
Security needs.
  I urge my House colleagues to support this resolution, and I urge the 
Senate to do the same, so we can quickly get to work on negotiating a 
full-year funding bill in support of the critical work of the 
Department of Homeland Security.
  Madam Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Ms. GRANGER. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.
  Madam Speaker, today I rise in opposition to H.J. Res. 1. Again, this 
bill put forward by the new Democratic leadership fails to secure our 
border. The President has said that he will not sign it. The Senate has 
said they will not consider it.
  This plan ignores one of the main responsibilities of the Congress, 
which is to protect the American people.
  Every day, there are an average of 2,100 illegal crossings at our 
southern border. According to the Department of Homeland Security, over 
17,000 criminals were apprehended at the border last year.
  From human traffickers to drug smugglers to suspected terrorists, 
these criminal illegal immigrants represent a clear threat to the 
safety and security of our homeland.
                              {time}  2030
  The situation at the border is a crisis, not only for border States 
like my home State of Texas, but for our entire country. We owe it to 
the American people to work together to address this problem and secure 
our border.
  As the leader of the Speaker's Working Group on the Border Crisis in 
2014, I had the opportunity to travel multiple times to our southern 
border and to the countries from where the majority of unaccompanied 
minors were coming. Not only did I talk to the leadership of each 
country, but I talked with many of the people who are sending their 
children to the United States.
  In addition to the crime and violence created by the cartels, I was 
told time and time again that the reason people and children were 
risking their lives to come to the United States was because of the 
lack of enforcement of our immigration laws and our unsecured borders.
  In order to discourage people from taking the treacherous and often 
deadly trip to the United States, it is vital that they know that we 
will enforce our immigration laws and that the border is secure.
  It is time to end the political gamesmanship and get to work on a 
bill that will reopen the government and fund border security. I urge 
my colleagues to vote ``no'' on this bill, and I reserve the balance of 
my time.
  Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD. Madam Speaker, how much time do I have remaining?
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentlewoman from California has 11 
minutes remaining.
  Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD. Madam Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the 
distinguished gentleman from Mississippi (Mr. Thompson), the chairman 
of the Committee on Homeland Security.
  Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi. Madam Speaker, I rise today in support 
of the new Democratic majority's efforts to reopen the Department of 
Homeland Security.
  Since the government shutdown on December 21, roughly 2.5 million 
holiday travelers each day have passed through airport security 
checkpoints staffed by Transportation Security Administration officers 
who aren't getting paid.
  As we speak, 87 percent of the DHS workforce is reporting to work 
without pay and without knowing when the next paycheck will come. These 
are fellow Americans with bills to pay and families to support. The 
President should not be treating them like pawns in his pathetic 
pursuit to fulfill an absurd campaign promise.
  Madam Speaker, I include in the Record a New York Times article dated 
January 3, 2019.
                [From the New York Times, Jan. 3, 2019]
  Government Shutdown Leaves Workers Reeling: ``We Seem To Be Pawns''
         (By Campbell Robertson, Mitch Smith and Alan Blinder)
       No sooner had the news of an impasse come out of a meeting 
     room in Washington than thousands of miles away, on an island 
     in the Pacific, Tomas Kaselionis had to start making 
     decisions.
       ``For me, it's do I consider a car payment or do I pay the 
     gas bill or the phone bill?'' said Mr. Kaselionis, who is 
     working on typhoon recovery for the Federal Emergency 
     Management Agency, unpaid and far from home in the United 
     States commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands. ``Those 
     are conversations within the next week that I have to have 
     with my wife.''
       By Saturday, the federal government will have been shut 
     down for two weeks, a full pay cycle for federal workers. If 
     the shutdown lasts through Monday, it will surpass the one of 
     2013, and if it lasts beyond the following Saturday, it will 
     be the longest shutdown in United States history. Politicians 
     have said they were hopeful that the standoff could be over 
     in a matter of ``days and weeks,'' a reassurance that rang 
     hollow to hundreds of thousands of federal workers who were 
     not getting paid.
       ``They have to realize that this affects everyday people,'' 
     said Ray Coleman Jr., a corrections officer who teaches 
     G.E.D. classes at a federal prison in Florida and is 
     president of his local union. ``It affects the boots on the 
     ground. To me, it's like a political chess game that they're 
     playing, and we seem to be pawns.''
       By Thursday, fallout from the shutdown was spreading fast. 
     The chairman of the Federal Communications Commission 
     announced on Twitter that the agency would ``suspend most 
     operations.''
       Federal court proceedings, to the irritation of judges, 
     slowed as government lawyers asked for stays. The Justice 
     Department asked to delay a hearing on a suit brought by the 
     N.A.A.C.P. over the Trump administration's census 
     preparations. And a much-anticipated E.P.A. hearing on lead 
     contamination in East Chicago, Ind., was canceled.
       All the while, claims for unemployment benefits were piling 
     up; the District of Columbia said it had received about 900 
     claims connected to the shutdown, and the state of Maryland 
     counted 637 at midweek. More than 350 federal workers in 
     Colorado had filed unemployment claims.
       ``People are, to be frank, a little pissed,'' said Daniel 
     A. Sobien, a meteorologist with the National Weather Service 
     in Tampa,
     Fla., who has been furloughed and is living on savings. 
     ``They're tired of being political pawns. I realize that 
     unfair things happen to people all the time, but it really is 
     unfair that because of politics, government employees have to 
     shoulder the burden.''
       The impasse may be centered within a few blocks in 
     Washington, D.C., but the federal work force shouldering the 
     burden is spread across the country--fewer than one in five 
     federal workers are in the Washington statistical area. Among 
     the 800,000 federal workers affected are people with 
     doctorates earning $100,000 a year and those making a quarter 
     of that; workers in labs and workers in prisons; people who 
     clean up majestic national parks and people who clean up 
     cramped offices in the early morning hours.
       Among these workers, there was a widely shared sentiment of 
     frustration, even disgust, that the people in charge seemed 
     to lack concern for the people who actually keep the 
     government working.
       ``It's indefensible to not appreciate the role and 
     responsibility that there is to make sure the government runs 
     smoothly,'' said A. Ashley Tabaddor, a federal immigration 
     judge in Los Angeles and president of the National 
     Association of Immigration Judges, who is currently on 
     furlough.
       Brian Turner, an officer with the Transportation Security 
     Administration at the Philadelphia airport, said he has for 
     six years enjoyed being ``the last line of defense'' for 
     people getting on airplanes. He endured a 16-day shutdown in 
     2013, but at the time did not have a house or a family, and 
     the politics back then, as fierce as they were, just seemed 
     more predictable, he said.
       ``I love working for the country,'' he said. But, he added, 
     ``I can't go two months without a paycheck.''
       About 420,000 of the workers affected are classified as 
     essential and have been working without knowing when they 
     will next be paid. About 380,000 federal workers have been 
     furloughed. Unions and federal agencies have not provided 
     demographic information about the workers affected, but have 
     said that the group is generally similar to the broader 
     federal work force, some 2.1 million nonmilitary workers.
       The work force is spread out nationally, with thousands of 
     federal employees in every state, tens of thousands in states 
     like Georgia, Pennsylvania and Oklahoma, and the highest 
     percentage in California. According to officials at unions 
     which represent federal employees, the shutdown seemed to be 
     affecting workers outside of the Washington, D.C. area most 
     severely.
       Less-populated areas may be hit disproportionately hard, 
     including small towns such as Pollock, La., where the biggest 
     employer is a federal penitentiary.
       ``Our members get an average take-home pay of $500 a week, 
     and next week they aren't going to get that,'' said J. David 
     Cox Sr., president of the American Federation of Government 
     Employees, which represents about 40,000 Bureau of Prisons 
     employees who have been furloughed in the shutdown. ``The 
     places that are getting slammed are the ones, like Pollock, 
     that you can't find with a GPS.''
       In addition to the federal workers, thousands of people who 
     work for contractors--cleaning offices or serving food--are 
     missing wages, but are not considered in proposed legislation 
     that promises back pay once a deal is worked out.
       ``Just to think about it, it's so frightening,'' said Donna 
     Kelly, a contracted security guard who works--or did work, 
     before the museums closed on Wednesday--at the Smithsonian 
     Institution. She had applied for unemployment benefits, but 
     was still waiting for her application to be processed. ``I 
     really don't know what I'll do until I'm actually feeling the 
     pressure.''
       Nearly all of those affected, the contractors, furloughed 
     employees and employees who were working without pay, were 
     experiencing a growing, gnawing anxiety. They were keeping 
     track of the news: Mr. Trump's demands for a border wall, the 
     daily shifts over terms of an imaginable deal, the vows by 
     Democrats and Republicans not to budge. But many said they 
     were doing so simply to find out if they could pay mortgages, 
     plan vacations or take care of car payments.
       ``I don't think anybody who works for the government is 
     worried about if this wall gets built or not,'' said La-
     Shanda Palmer, a T.S.A. employee in Philadelphia. ``They want 
     to go back to work.'' She was concerned about paying her 
     bills and racking up late fees, and providing for her family. 
     She said she called her utility company hoping for an 
     accommodation; she did not get a break.
       ``Right now, the stress level is at 1,000,'' said Kutonya 
     King, a correctional counselor at the federal prison in 
     Jesup, Ga. Like other corrections officers, Ms. King said she 
     was concerned about the safety of the inmates and of her 
     fellow workers, who will have more and more to occupy their 
     minds if the shutdown drags on. An officer at another prison 
     wondered how many of her colleagues would end up staying home 
     because they could not afford gas.
       Still, Ms. King said some inmates had offered sympathy. 
     That seemed to be more than workers were hearing from 
     Washington.
       ``I don't particularly blame a particular party; I think 
     it's across the board,'' Ms. King said. ``They need to think 
     about the people.''
       Ms. King has been making plans in case the shutdown lasts 
     the promised days and weeks, having already canceled a long-
     planned family trip for the holidays. She may need that money 
     to pay bills, she said.
       Later on Thursday afternoon, back in Washington, a key 
     Republican senator suggested to reporters a new possible 
     timeline for the shutdown: ``months and months.''
  Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi. Madam Speaker, I have served on this 
committee since its inception and have spent more than a decade working 
with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to identify and invest in 
effective ways to secure the border. That is why I find the President's 
bizarre obsession with wasting billions of dollars on building a wall 
so confounding. There is absolutely no evidence that a wall spanning 
the U.S.-Mexico border will make America safer.
  While I am at it, there is similarly no evidence that separating 
children from their families or implementing harsh asylum restrictions 
makes America safer either, but the Trump administration has forced DHS 
to pursue such cruel, costly, and inhumane policies.
  The kinds of threats America faces today transcend physical borders. 
The President needs to learn that and adjust his priorities 
accordingly.
  Last fall, Secretary Nielsen declared that cyberattacks and 
sophisticated hacking are the biggest threats to the United States. 
Yet, today, almost half the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security 
Agency workforce is furloughed, and the rest are working without pay 
because the President is fixated on his wall.
  According to one official: ``CISA has ceased a variety of critical 
cybersecurity and infrastructure protection capabilities.''
  I am disturbed that the President does not appear to understand that 
his actions have stalled progress on securing vulnerable networks.
  Moreover, the uncertainty as to when workers will be paid is also 
counterproductive.
  Madam Speaker, I am disappointed that we are forced to spend the 
first days of the 116th Congress on the unfinished business of the 
115th Congress instead of addressing priorities that Americans elected 
us to tackle in November, but this is where we find ourselves.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The time of the gentleman has expired.
  Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD. I yield the gentleman an additional 15 seconds.
  Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi. The American public needs Congress to be 
the grownups in the room. I urge my colleagues to support this short-
term spending bill so we can pay the DHS employees charged with 
protecting the homeland.
  Ms. GRANGER. Madam Speaker, I yield 4 minutes to the gentleman from 
Tennessee (Mr. Fleischmann).
  Mr. FLEISCHMANN. Madam Speaker, I respectfully and strongly rise 
today in strong opposition to the proposal from my colleagues on the 
other side of the aisle to reopen the government without increased 
funding for border security.
  Let me be clear: This attempt to reopen our government without 
increased border security funding is dangerous, flawed, and truly puts 
party before country.
  We can all agree that our country is in crisis, as our porous 
borders, our porous southern border, allow dangerous criminals, deadly 
drugs, and human trafficking to pour into our country almost unchecked.
  So why do my colleagues on the other side of the aisle continue to 
refuse to take real action and do something about it?
  Just the other day, there was another tragedy where the police 
reported an individual who had come here illegally took the life of a 
police officer. That police officer left his family as a patriotic 
American dedicated to enforcing the rule of law and, as a result, lost 
his life.
  How many more times does this have to happen before my colleagues on 
the other side of this aisle support increased border security?
  In short, we need the wall.
  Madam Speaker, my colleagues on the other side of the aisle say that 
walls don't work. Let me assure you, they do. According to the 
Department of Homeland Security, there have been significant decreases 
along our southern border where walls and fencing have been built. Look 
at Yuma, Arizona, where illegal traffic has dropped 95 percent, 95 
percent over 9 years, or
El Paso, Texas, where illegal traffic has dropped 72 percent in 1 year 
alone and over 95 percent in 22 years.
  Madam Speaker, House Republicans took a stand on December 5 to secure 
our Nation by passing a bill that included $5.7 billion in border 
security. That was the President's full request for the wall. This bill 
is central to fulfilling our promise as elected officials to protect 
the American people, ensure the safety of our Nation, and put American 
interests first. To reopen the government without necessary border 
security funding and wall funding is a sorely missed opportunity.
  Madam Speaker, let's get back to work negotiating and take up 
legislation that secures our southern border, funds the wall, and 
strengthens our Nation.
  Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD. Madam Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the gentleman 
from Texas (Mr. Cuellar), a longtime member of the Appropriations 
Subcommittee on Homeland Security.
  Mr. CUELLAR. Madam Speaker, look, everybody talks about the border 
and how violent it is. But if you look at the latest FBI statistics, 
whether it is rape, murder, or assault, the border crime rate is lower 
than the national crime rate. I can pick any city that you want, and 
you will see that none of the most dangerous cities in the country are 
on the border, none of them. None of them are.
  In fact, if you look at my hometown of Laredo, the murder rate on the 
border, and you compare it to Washington, D.C., where we are, it is 
about three or four times higher here in Washington, D.C. If people are 
worried about the crime, start off with Washington, D.C., if that is 
what y'all want to do.
  The wall is a 14th century solution to a 21st century issue that we 
have. We want to see strong border security. I live on the border. I 
don't just go visit for a second or 2 hours and say that I know the 
border better. I know what works down there, and the wall is a 14th 
century solution.
  If you want to spend billions of dollars on a wall, I will spend $100 
on a ladder that will take care of that wall. This is why we have to 
make sure that we spend money on Border Patrol. We are 2,000 Border 
Patrol agents short. In fact, if we spend money on retention so we can 
keep them, we don't have to lose them. We are losing Border Patrol 
agents right now.
  But we can't spend it the wrong way. The administration just spent 
$14.8 million to hire two Border Patrol agents. Now, maybe one of them 
is Captain America, I don't know. But are we going to spend $15 million 
to hire two Border Patrol agents?
  Spend that money on bonuses. Give them the equipment that we have. 
Protect private property rights on the border. We can go ahead and do 
that.
  If you want to stop drugs, look at the latest DEA report. You will 
see that the latest DEA report tells you that drugs come in through 
ports of entry. You can build the most beautiful wall, and they are 
going to come in through a port of entry. Put money on the ports of 
entry. Put money on CBP facilities and the facilities that we need.
  Finally, the last thing I want to say is this: There is technology 
that works for the military, and if it works for the military, we can 
surely use it on the border. Personnel, technology, we have to look at 
the right way of securing the border.
  I want to work with you. We want to work with you, but the wall is a 
14th century solution. We can do better than that.
  Ms. GRANGER. Madam Speaker, I yield 4 minutes to the gentleman from 
South Carolina (Mr. Rice).
  Mr. RICE of South Carolina. Madam Speaker, it is true that about 30 
percent of the government is shut down. We are in a standoff here. Why 
is that? What is the purpose of this?
  It is because of two scourges on our country that have been brought 
on by our poor southern border, and that is illegal immigration and 
opioid deaths. My constituents have had enough.
  House Republicans passed a spending bill just a few weeks ago that 
included $5.7 billion that would go a long way toward securing our 
southern border and easing these disasters.
  Now the Democrats take charge, and the first thing they do is 
introduce a bill that eliminates that spending for border security.
  With respect to illegal immigration, hundreds of thousands of illegal 
aliens cross our southern border every year. This limitless supply of 
cheap labor unfairly competes for jobs and holds down wages for 
hardworking, law-abiding Americans. The most affected are the most 
vulnerable at the bottom of the income ladder.
  The American middle class is smaller and today makes the same money 
as it did in 1990. That is right. Until Donald Trump came along, the 
American middle class hadn't had a raise in 25 years. Cheap labor from 
illegal aliens breaking our laws every year to cheat American workers 
is one of the primary causes.
  Madam Speaker, my friends on the other side of the aisle love to 
complain about income inequality. Well, here is a chance to stop 
complaining and actually do something about income inequality.
  If you truly want to give the middle class a raise, let's stop the 
endless flow of illegal labor that cheats our middle class. Let's 
restore the $5.7 billion to secure our southern border and stop the 
flow of cheap illegal labor and watch wages rise.
  With respect to opioids, the scourge of opioid death is not new, but 
it is exploding in America as gangs and drug cartels become more adept 
at exploiting our porous southern border for fantastic profits. But 
these criminal profits come at great cost for honest, hardworking 
people, both in Central and South America and here in the United 
States.
  In 2017, 70,000 people died from opioid overdoses. That is up 45 
percent in 1 year. One hundred thirty-two of these Americans killed by 
drugs were in my district, and they are in your districts, too.
  You want to argue about who caused the shutdown? I don't care about 
who caused the shutdown. What I care about are 70,000 Americans killed 
by opioids, most of which come across our southern border. Law 
enforcement tells me 85 percent of those drugs killing my constituents 
and yours come across our southern border.
                              {time}  2045
  That 70,000 Americans killed by drug overdoses is more than traffic 
deaths, 37,000, and homicides, 17,000, combined; more than traffic 
deaths and homicides combined. And most of these drugs killing your 
constituents are coming across our southern border.
  Mr. Speaker, the Democrats say they are for border security, but they 
take no action. Empty words.
  They stripped the funding from the spending bill. They want to argue 
about who is to blame for the shutdown. Go home and tell that to a 
family that lost a loved one from opioids because you refused to take 
action to secure our southern border. Empty words.
  Funny, Mr. Schumer voted in favor of a border wall in 2006. Why is he 
against it now? Because Mr. Trump wants it? Empty words.
  It is time to stop the finger pointing and do something to truly help 
our constituents. Let's help the middle class by ending unfair 
competition from illegal aliens.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The time of the gentleman has expired.
  Ms. GRANGER. Madam Speaker, I yield an additional 30 seconds to the 
gentleman.
  Mr. RICE of South Carolina. Madam Speaker, let's reduce opioid deaths 
by ending the flow of deadly drugs from Mexico. Let's restore the $5.7 
billion that Homeland Security says they need to finally secure our 
southern border.
  Madam Speaker, the Democrats are terribly worried about who gets 
blamed for the shutdown. Frankly, I don't care who gets blamed.
  This is a fight to keep drugs off our streets and out of the hands of 
our children. It is a fight to keep our communities safe. It is a fight 
for higher wages for hardworking Americans. It is a fight worth having.
  Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD. Madam Speaker, I yield 2\1/2\ minutes to the 
gentleman from Maryland (Mr. Ruppersberger), another longtime member of 
the Appropriations Subcommittee on Homeland Security.
  Mr. RUPPERSBERGER. Madam Speaker, I rise in support of H.J. Res. 1, 
which makes continuing appropriations for the Department of Homeland 
Security.
  As a matter of principle, I don't like continuing resolutions. Stop-
gap bills provide funding at current levels only; they prevent new 
spending where needed and prolong programs that have been discontinued; 
and last, Band-Aid budgets are bad for everyone, the American taxpayers 
and especially those on the front lines tasked with protecting the 
homeland.
  But today, the 13th day of this senseless government shutdown, the 
administration has tied our hands in demanding more than $5 billion for 
the President's campaign pledge, a border wall that really does not 
work.
  I am a member of the Appropriations Homeland Security Subcommittee. 
When we met with the previous head of the border patrol, Ronald 
Vitiello, we asked: How much time does a physical wall buy you?
  His answer was: `` . . . a few minutes to a few seconds.''
  What we need is more manpower. Last year there were more than 800 
vacancies for border patrol officers at checkpoints in Laredo, Tucson, 
and San Diego alone. They are working triple overtime there.
  So our tax dollars can be better spent investing in more Customs and 
Border Patrol officers, more immigration judges, and by leveraging the 
fruits of modern technology, such as new communication towers, state-
of-the-art cameras, drones, all-terrain vehicles, and fencing where 
appropriate.
  Brick and mortar walls are a 4th century solution to a 21st century 
problem.
  We also need President Trump to stop leading by fear and falsehoods.
  As it relates to his border wall issue, the real problem is 
undocumented immigrants overstaying their visas, which constitutes well 
over half of those here illegally. And those are facts.
  Most of the drugs entering our country are coming through official 
land, air, and seaports of entry. I represent one of those ports: the 
Port of Baltimore.
  In electing 60 new Democrats to Congress, the American people have 
rejected this willy-nilly style of governance and are demanding a 
return to commonsense governing.
  No, we don't want open borders. Yes, we can do better when it comes 
to border security, but we must do it strategically.
  This continuing resolution gives us 30 days to debate funding levels 
for border security, including physical enhancements. It is identical 
to legislation already passed by our colleagues in the Senate just a 
few weeks ago.
  Madam Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support H.J. Res. 1.
  Ms. GRANGER. Madam Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD. Madam Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the 
gentlewoman from Texas (Ms. Jackson Lee).
  Ms. JACKSON LEE. Madam Speaker, Democrats made a pledge to the 
American people, and we are here at 8:50 in the evening making good on 
our pledge to the American people to open the government, to open the 
government by funding certain appropriations up until September 30, and 
by opening the government by extending Homeland Security funding until 
February 8 to make sure that the TSOs, the border patrol, the CBPs are 
all being paid.
  How many of you go through the airports and go through security? Do 
you realize that those TSOs are not being paid?
  My commitment to them as I traveled here to Washington is: You need 
to be paid; not because you are not great public servants, but because 
it is a shame.
  So I come today to say, do what is right, not for the party, but for 
the American people.
  The President indicated: I will build a great, great wall on our 
southern border and Mexico will pay for it.
  Where is the Mexico funding? Today I introduced a bill: no funding 
for the wall; Mexico will pay for it.
  So it is extremely important to recognize our duty, and our duty is 
to fund this government, but I also want to give a constitutional 
lesson, if I might.
  Article I is the Congress. Article II is the executive. We work 
together. We don't have dictates from the executive to tell Congress 
what is best to do for the American people.
  Pay our Federal workers so that jobs can get done, so that there is 
not rubbish and trash and disaster on the Mall that is so beautiful.
  And what is this breaking news? Again, the misuse of the military. 
The Trump administration wants to send more troops to the border, not 
for protecting the border with Mexico, but to add 160 miles of wire.
  I just came from the border on Saturday. I wanted to say what I know. 
I go to the border all the time through the years that I have been on 
Homeland Security and I talk to the border patrol agents, and they 
don't want a concrete wall, but I will tell you what they need----
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The time of the gentlewoman has expired.
  Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD. Madam Speaker, I yield an additional 30 seconds to 
the gentlewoman from Texas.
  Ms. JACKSON LEE. Madam Speaker, they don't want a four-legged table 
with Pepto Bismol on the table and one doctor. They don't want a room 
of individuals who have a sign that says, ``Flu room.'' They don't want 
the innocent children and families coming across, who are now condemned 
that they are coming across misrepresenting, and they are fleeing 
bloodshed and persecution. And the dominant numbers who are coming 
across the border are women and children and families.
  We are a big enough Nation to have a resolution through real border 
security, through technology, through personnel, through individuals at 
the ports of entry, CBP.
  We know how to do this, and all we need to do is sit down and do it. 
That is why we need the bills that are on the floor, Madam Speaker. 
Open the government now and vote for these bills.
  Ms. GRANGER. Madam Speaker, I urge my colleagues to vote ``no'' on 
this bill. I yield back the balance of my time.
  Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD. Madam Speaker, I urge my House colleagues to 
support this resolution and the critical work of the Department of 
Homeland Security. I yield back the balance of my time.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. All time for debate has expired.
  Pursuant to House Resolution 5, the previous question is ordered on 
the joint resolution.
  The question is on the engrossment and third reading of the joint 
resolution.
  The joint resolution was ordered to be engrossed and read a third 
time, and was read the third time.
                           Motion to Recommit
  Ms. GRANGER. Madam Speaker, I have a motion to recommit at the desk.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is the gentlewoman opposed to the joint 
resolution?
  Ms. GRANGER. Madam Speaker, I am, in its current form.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Clerk will report the motion to 
recommit.
  The Clerk read as follows:
       Ms. Granger moves to recommit the joint resolution H.J. 
     Res. 1 to the Committee on Appropriations.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentlewoman from Texas is recognized for 
5 minutes.
  Ms. GRANGER. Madam Speaker, the bills that House Democrats have 
chosen to consider today are not in keeping with the months of good-
faith negotiations to resolve the differences between the House, the 
Senate, and the White House.
  More importantly, they fail to truly address the crisis on our 
southern border and the very real threat it poses to the safety and 
security of our homeland.
  We owe it to the American people to work together to address this 
problem and secure our border. It is time to reopen the government and 
fund border security.
  Madam Speaker, I urge my colleagues to vote ``yes'' on the motion to 
recommit, and I yield back the balance of my time.
  Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD. Madam Speaker, I rise in opposition to the motion 
to recommit.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentlewoman from California is 
recognized for 5 minutes.
  Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD. Madam Speaker, this shutdown has gone on long 
enough. This motion to recommit would only further prolong the 
shutdown.
  We need to pass H.J. Res. 1 immediately to ensure that all components
of our Department of Homeland Security are open and functional to 
protect the American people.
  Madam Speaker, for those reasons, I urge my colleagues to oppose the 
motion to recommit, and I yield back the balance of my time.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Without objection, the previous question is 
ordered on the motion to recommit.
  There was no objection.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on the motion to recommit.
  The question was taken; and the Speaker pro tempore announced that 
the noes appeared to have it.
  Ms. GRANGER. Madam Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.
  The yeas and nays were ordered.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to clause 8 and clause 9 of rule 
XX, this 15-minute vote on the motion to recommit will be followed by 
5-minute votes on:
  Passage of the joint resolution, if ordered;
  The motion to recommit on H.R. 21; and
  Passage of H.R. 21.
  The vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--yeas 197, 
nays 233, not voting 2, as follows:
                              [Roll No. 8]
                               YEAS--197
     Abraham
     Aderholt
     Allen
     Amash
     Amodei
     Armstrong
     Arrington
     Babin
     Bacon
     Baird
     Balderson
     Banks
     Barr
     Bergman
     Biggs
     Bilirakis
     Bishop (UT)
     Bost
     Brady
     Brooks (AL)
     Brooks (IN)
     Buchanan
     Buck
     Bucshon
     Budd
     Burchett
     Burgess
     Byrne
     Calvert
     Carter (GA)
     Carter (TX)
     Chabot
     Cheney
     Cline
     Cloud
     Cole
     Collins (GA)
     Collins (NY)
     Comer
     Conaway
     Cook
     Crawford
     Crenshaw
     Curtis
     Davidson (OH)
     Davis, Rodney
     DesJarlais
     Diaz-Balart
     Duffy
     Duncan
     Dunn
     Emmer
     Estes
     Ferguson
     Fitzpatrick
     Fleischmann
     Flores
     Fortenberry
     Foxx (NC)
     Fulcher
     Gaetz
     Gallagher
     Gianforte
     Gibbs
     Gohmert
     Gonzalez (OH)
     Gooden
     Gosar
     Granger
     Graves (GA)
     Graves (LA)
     Graves (MO)
     Green (TN)
     Griffith
     Grothman
     Guest
     Guthrie
     Hagedorn
     Harris
     Hartzler
     Hern, Kevin
     Herrera Beutler
     Hice (GA)
     Higgins (LA)
     Hill (AR)
     Holding
     Hollingsworth
     Hudson
     Huizenga
     Hunter
     Hurd (TX)
     Johnson (LA)
     Johnson (OH)
     Johnson (SD)
     Jordan
     Joyce (OH)
     Joyce (PA)
     Katko
     Kelly (MS)
     Kelly (PA)
     King (IA)
     King (NY)
     Kinzinger
     Kustoff (TN)
     LaHood
     LaMalfa
     Lamborn
     Latta
     Lesko
     Long
     Loudermilk
     Lucas
     Luetkemeyer
     Marchant
     Marino
     Marshall
     Massie
     Mast
     McCarthy
     McCaul
     McClintock
     McHenry
     McKinley
     McMorris Rodgers
     Meadows
     Meuser
     Miller
     Mitchell
     Moolenaar
     Mooney (WV)
     Mullin
     Newhouse
     Norman
     Nunes
     Olson
     Palazzo
     Palmer
     Pence
     Perry
     Posey
     Ratcliffe
     Reed
     Reschenthaler
     Rice (SC)
     Riggleman
     Roby
     Roe, David P.
     Rogers (AL)
     Rogers (KY)
     Rooney (FL)
     Rose, John W.
     Rouzer
     Roy
     Rutherford
     Scalise
     Schweikert
     Scott, Austin
     Sensenbrenner
     Shimkus
     Simpson
     Smith (MO)
     Smith (NE)
     Smith (NJ)
     Spano
     Stauber
     Stefanik
     Steil
     Steube
     Stewart
     Stivers
     Taylor
     Thompson (PA)
     Thornberry
     Timmons
     Tipton
     Turner
     Upton
     Wagner
     Walberg
     Walden
     Walker
     Walorski
     Waltz
     Watkins
     Weber (TX)
     Webster (FL)
     Wenstrup
     Westerman
     Williams
     Wilson (SC)
     Wittman
     Womack
     Woodall
     Wright
     Yoho
     Young
     Zeldin
                               NAYS--233
     Adams
     Aguilar
     Allred
     Axne
     Barragan
     Bass
     Beatty
     Bera
     Beyer
     Bishop (GA)
     Blumenauer
     Blunt Rochester
     Bonamici
     Boyle, Brendan F.
     Brindisi
     Brown (MD)
     Brownley (CA)
     Bustos
     Butterfield
     Carbajal
     Cardenas
     Carson (IN)
     Cartwright
     Case
     Casten (IL)
     Castor (FL)
     Castro (TX)
     Chu, Judy
     Cicilline
     Cisneros
     Clark (MA)
     Clarke (NY)
     Clay
     Cleaver
     Clyburn
     Cohen
     Connolly
     Cooper
     Correa
     Costa
     Courtney
     Cox (CA)
     Craig
     Crist
     Crow
     Cuellar
     Cummings
     Cunningham
     Davids (KS)
     Davis (CA)
     Davis, Danny K.
     Dean
     DeFazio
     DeGette
     DeLauro
     DelBene
     Delgado
     Demings
     DeSaulnier
     Deutch
     Dingell
     Doggett
     Doyle, Michael F.
     Engel
     Escobar
     Eshoo
     Espaillat
     Evans
     Finkenauer
     Fletcher
     Foster
     Frankel
     Fudge
     Gabbard
     Gallego
     Garcia (IL)
     Garcia (TX)
     Golden
     Gomez
     Gonzalez (TX)
     Gottheimer
     Green (TX)
     Grijalva
     Haaland
     Harder (CA)
     Hastings
     Hayes
     Heck
     Higgins (NY)
     Hill (CA)
     Himes
     Horn, Kendra S.
     Horsford
     Houlahan
     Hoyer
     Huffman
     Jackson Lee
     Jayapal
     Jeffries
     Johnson (GA)
     Johnson (TX)
     Kaptur
     Keating
     Kelly (IL)
     Kennedy
     Khanna
     Kildee
     Kilmer
     Kim
     Kind
     Kirkpatrick
     Krishnamoorthi
     Kuster (NH)
     Lamb
     Langevin
     Larsen (WA)
     Larson (CT)
     Lawrence
     Lawson (FL)
     Lee (CA)
     Lee (NV)
     Levin (CA)
     Levin (MI)
     Lewis
     Lieu, Ted
     Lipinski
     Loebsack
     Lofgren
     Lowenthal
     Lowey
     Lujan, Ben Ray
     Luria
     Lynch
     Malinowski
     Maloney, Carolyn B.
     Maloney, Sean
     Matsui
     McAdams
     McBath
     McCollum
     McEachin
     McGovern
     McNerney
     Meeks
     Meng
     Moore
     Morelle
     Moulton
     Mucarsel-Powell
     Murphy
     Nadler
     Napolitano
     Neal
     Neguse
     Norcross
     O'Halleran
     Ocasio-Cortez
     Omar
     Pallone
     Panetta
     Pappas
     Pascrell
     Payne
     Perlmutter
     Peters
     Peterson
     Phillips
     Pingree
     Pocan
     Porter
     Pressley
     Price (NC)
     Quigley
     Raskin
     Rice (NY)
     Richmond
     Rose (NY)
     Rouda
     Roybal-Allard
     Ruiz
     Ruppersberger
     Rush
     Ryan
     Sanchez
     Sarbanes
     Scanlon
     Schakowsky
     Schiff
     Schneider
     Schrader
     Schrier
     Scott (VA)
     Scott, David
     Serrano
     Sewell (AL)
     Shalala
     Sherman
     Sherrill
     Sires
     Slotkin
     Smith (WA)
     Soto
     Spanberger
     Speier
     Stanton
     Stevens
     Suozzi
     Swalwell (CA)
     Takano
     Thompson (CA)
     Thompson (MS)
     Titus
     Tlaib
     Tonko
     Torres (CA)
     Torres Small (NM)
     Trahan
     Trone
     Underwood
     Van Drew
     Vargas
     Veasey
     Vela
     Velazquez
     Visclosky
     Wasserman Schultz
     Waters
     Watson Coleman
     Welch
     Wexton
     Wild
     Wilson (FL)
     Yarmuth
                             NOT VOTING--2
     Garamendi
     Smucke
                              {time}  2124
  Messrs. GONZALEZ of Texas, MORELLE, SCHNEIDER, Ms. OMAR, and Mr. 
RUPPERSBERGER changed their vote from ``yea'' to ``nay.''
  Messrs. HOLDING, COMER, and HILL of Arkansas changed their vote from 
``nay'' to ``yea.''
  So the motion to recommit was rejected.
  The result of the vote was announced as above recorded
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on the passage of the joint 
resolution.
  The question was taken; and the Speaker pro tempore announced that 
the ayes appeared to have it.
                             Recorded Vote
  Ms. GRANGER. Madam Speaker, I demand a recorded vote.
  A recorded vote was ordered.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. This will be a 5-minute vote.
  The vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--ayes 239, 
noes 192, not voting 1, as follows:
                              [Roll No. 9]
                               AYES--239
     Adams
     Aguilar
     Allred
     Axne
     Barragan
     Bass
     Beatty
     Bera
     Beyer
     Bishop (GA)
     Blumenauer
     Blunt Rochester
     Bonamici
     Boyle, Brendan F.
     Brindisi
     Brown (MD)
     Brownley (CA)
     Bustos
     Butterfield
     Carbajal
     Cardenas
     Carson (IN)
     Cartwright
     Case
     Casten (IL)
     Castor (FL)
     Castro (TX)
     Chu, Judy
     Cicilline
     Cisneros
     Clark (MA)
     Clarke (NY)
     Clay
     Cleaver
     Clyburn
     Cohen
     Connolly
     Cooper
     Correa
     Costa
     Courtney
     Cox (CA)
     Craig
     Crist
     Crow
     Cuellar
     Cummings
     Cunningham
     Davids (KS)
     Davis (CA)
     Davis, Danny K.
     Dean
     DeFazio
     DeGette
     DeLauro
     DelBene
     Delgado
     Demings
     DeSaulnier
     Deutch
     Dingell
     Doggett
     Doyle, Michael F.
     Engel
     Escobar
     Eshoo
     Espaillat
     Evans
     Finkenauer
     Fitzpatrick
     Fletcher
     Foster
     Frankel
     Fudge
     Gabbard
     Gallego
     Garamendi
     Garcia (IL)
     Garcia (TX)
     Golden
     Gomez
     Gonzalez (TX)
     Gottheimer
     Green (TX)
     Grijalva
     Haaland
     Harder (CA)
     Hastings
     Hayes
     Heck
     Higgins (NY)
     Hill (CA)
     Himes
     Horn, Kendra S.
     Horsford
     Houlahan
     Hoyer
     Huffman
     Hurd (TX)
     Jackson Lee
     Jayapal
     Jeffries
     Johnson (GA)
     Johnson (TX)
     Kaptur
     Katko
     Keating
     Kelly (IL)
     Kennedy
     Khanna
     Kildee
     Kilmer
     Kim
     Kind
     Kirkpatrick
     Krishnamoorthi
     Kuster (NH)
     Lamb
     Langevin
     Larsen (WA)
     Larson (CT)
     Lawrence
     Lawson (FL)
     Lee (CA)
     Lee (NV)
     Levin (CA)
     Levin (MI)
     Lewis
     Lieu, Ted
     Lipinski
     Loebsack
     Lofgren
     Lowenthal
     Lowey
     Lujan, Ben Ray
     Luria
     Lynch
     Malinowski
     Maloney, Carolyn B.
     Maloney, Sean
     Matsui
     McAdams
     McBath
     McCollum
     McEachin
     McGovern
     McNerney
     Meeks
     Meng
     Moore
     Morelle
     Moulton
     Mucarsel-Powell
     Murphy
     Nadler
     Napolitano
     Neal
     Neguse
     Norcross
     O'Halleran
     Ocasio-Cortez
     Omar
     Pallone
     Panetta
     Pappas
     Pascrell
     Payne
     Perlmutter
     Peters
     Peterson
     Phillips
     Pingree
     Pocan
     Porter
     Pressley
     Price (NC)
     Quigley
     Raskin
     Rice (NY)
     Richmond
     Rose (NY)
     Rouda
     Roybal-Allard
     Ruiz
     Ruppersberger
     Rush
     Ryan
     Sanchez
     Sarbanes
     Scanlon
     Schakowsky
     Schiff
     Schneider
     Schrader
     Schrier
     Scott (VA)
     Scott, David
     Serrano
     Sewell (AL)
     Shalala
     Sherman
     Sherrill
     Sires
     Slotkin
     Smith (NJ)
     Smith (WA)
     Soto
     Spanberger
     Speier
     Stanton
     Stefanik
     Stevens
     Suozzi
     Swalwell (CA)
     Takano
     Thompson (CA)
     Thompson (MS)
     Titus
     Tlaib
     Tonko
     Torres (CA)
     Torres Small (NM)
     Trahan
     Trone
     Underwood
     Van Drew
     Vargas
     Veasey
     Vela
     Velazquez
     Visclosky
     Wasserman Schultz
     Waters
     Watson Coleman
     Welch
     Wexton
     Wild
     Wilson (FL)
     Yarmuth
                               NOES--192
     Abraham
     Aderholt
     Allen
     Amash
     Amodei
     Armstrong
     Arrington
     Babin
     Bacon
     Baird
     Balderson
     Banks
     Barr
     Bergman
     Biggs
     Bilirakis
     Bishop (UT)
     Bost
     Brady
     Brooks (AL)
     Brooks (IN)
     Buchanan
     Buck
     Bucshon
     Budd
     Burchett
     Burgess
     Byrne
     Calvert
     Carter (GA)
     Carter (TX)
     Chabot
     Cheney
     Cline
     Cloud
     Cole
     Collins (GA)
     Collins (NY)
     Comer
     Conaway
     Cook
     Crawford
     Crenshaw
     Curtis
     Davidson (OH)
     Davis, Rodney
     DesJarlais
     Diaz-Balart
     Duffy
     Duncan
     Dunn
     Emmer
     Estes
     Ferguson
     Fleischmann
     Flores
     Fortenberry
     Foxx (NC)
     Fulcher
     Gaetz
     Gallagher
     Gianforte
     Gibbs
     Gohmert
     Gonzalez (OH)
     Gooden
     Gosar
     Granger
     Graves (GA)
     Graves (LA)
     Graves (MO)
     Green (TN)
     Griffith
     Grothman
     Guest
     Guthrie
     Hagedorn
     Harris
     Hartzler
     Hern, Kevin
     Herrera Beutler
     Hice (GA)
     Higgins (LA)
     Hill (AR)
     Holding
     Hollingsworth
     Hudson
     Huizenga
     Hunter
     Johnson (LA)
     Johnson (OH)
     Johnson (SD)
     Jordan
     Joyce (OH)
     Joyce (PA)
     Kelly (MS)
     Kelly (PA)
     King (IA)
     King (NY)
     Kinzinger
     Kustoff (TN)
     LaHood
     LaMalfa
     Lamborn
     Latta
     Lesko
     Long
     Loudermilk
     Lucas
     Luetkemeyer
     Marchant
     Marino
     Marshall
     Massie
     Mast
     McCarthy
     McCaul
     McClintock
     McHenry
     McKinley
     McMorris Rodgers
     Meadows
     Meuser
     Miller
     Mitchell
     Moolenaar
     Mooney (WV)
     Mullin
     Newhouse
     Norman
     Nunes
     Olson
     Palazzo
     Palmer
     Pence
     Perry
     Posey
     Ratcliffe
     Reed
     Reschenthaler
     Rice (SC)
     Riggleman
     Roby
     Roe, David P.
     Rogers (AL)
     Rogers (KY)
     Rooney (FL)
     Rose, John W.
     Rouzer
     Roy
     Rutherford
     Scalise
     Schweikert
     Scott, Austin
     Sensenbrenner
     Shimkus
     Simpson
     Smith (MO)
     Smith (NE)
     Spano
     Stauber
     Steil
     Steube
     Stewart
     Stivers
     Taylor
     Thompson (PA)
     Thornberry
     Timmons
     Tipton
     Turner
     Upton
     Wagner
     Walberg
     Walden
     Walker
     Walorski
     Waltz
     Watkins
     Weber (TX)
     Webster (FL)
     Wenstrup
     Westerman
     Williams
     Wilson (SC)
     Wittman
     Womack
     Woodall
     Wright
     Yoho
     Young
     Zeldin
                             NOT VOTING--1
       
     Smucker
       
                Announcement by the Speaker Pro Tempore
  The SPEAKER pro tempore (during the vote). There are 2 minutes 
remaining.
                              {time}  2134
  So the joint resolution was passed.
  The result of the vote was announced as above recorded.
  A motion to reconsider was laid on the table.
                          




  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that when the 
Senate completes its business today, it adjourn until 10 a.m., Friday, 
January 4; further, that following the prayer and pledge, the morning 
hour be deemed expired, the Journal of proceedings be approved to date, 
and the time for the two leaders be reserved for their use later in the 
day; finally, that following leader remarks, the Senate be in a period 
of morning business, with Senators permitted to speak therein for up to 
10 minutes each.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
                          




  Ms. LOFGREN. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor Pastor Kenny 
Foreman, who passed away on December 16, 2018. I spoke three years ago 
on the impact he made on Santa Clara County and it saddens me that he 
has left us so soon. He was a beloved member of our community whose 
passing is deeply felt.
   Pastor Kenny Foreman dedicated his life to the ministry. He started 
to travel the country at age seventeen as an evangelist minister. With 
his wife, Shirley, he continued his commitment to his beliefs and 
established the Cathedral of Faith in 1965. Since then Pastor Foreman 
was a pillar in our community's spiritual life. He has touched 
thousands of lives with a congregation of more than 12,000 members with 
over 70 ministries.
   As his life's work, the Cathedral of Faith, serves the spiritual 
needs of the community and gives help to those in need. One of the 
ministries, ``Reaching Out,'' is a food assistance program that 
operates one of the largest and most efficient food programs in the 
State of California. Their mission is to serve the low-income, 
disadvantaged, and homeless in Santa Clara County. Other ministries 
serve those recently released from incarceration, give support to those 
with addiction, and aid parents with children who have special needs. 
These programs are just a few that support our community and are 
emblematic of Pastor Foreman's life-long service to others.
   I first met and worked with Kenny Foreman nearly forty years ago. I 
know personally of his love for God and his dedication to our community 
and especially to those in need. He was a remarkable man and someone I 
was privileged to consider a friend.
   Pastor Kenny Foreman is survived by sons, Ken and Kurt; their 
mother, Shirley; four grandchildren; two great-grandchildren; and 
countless friends. Mr. Speaker, our Santa Clara County community mourns 
his passing, but we are grateful for his life, his generosity, and 
contributions. He has left our world a better place and will be dearly 
missed.
                          




  Mr. WITTMAN. Madam Speaker, I was not present for Roll Call Vote No. 
6 on adoption of the rule providing for consideration of H. Res. 6. Had 
I been present, I would have voted NAY on Roll Call No. 6.
                          




  Mr. SUOZZI. Madam Speaker, today is former Congressman Lester Wolff's 
100th birthday, the oldest living former member of Congress.
   Lester was born in New York City in 1919. He served his country 
during World War II, achieving the rank of Colonel in the Civil Air 
Patrol.
   In 1964, Lester was elected to Congress and went on to serve the 
people of New York for 16 illustrious years. In 2014, he was awarded 
the Congressional Gold Medal, the highest civilian award.
   As a Congressman, he is remembered for playing an active role in 
foreign affairs, but on Long Island he is also remembered for standing 
up to powerful interests to protect the environment.
   In 1967, the New York State Legislature--at the insistence of then 
Governor Nelson Rockefeller and master planner Robert Moses--authorized 
a bridge across the Long Island Sound.
   Lester immediately saw that this bridge would despoil the pristine 
and precious resource of the Long Island Sound and soon found himself 
at the center of an enormous political fight.
   Lester eventually won this fight and the Oyster Bay Wildlife Refuge 
was born. Lester's efforts in 1968 are an important part of our 
nation's environmental history.
   In recognition of his monumental contributions to the preservation 
and protection of our environment, especially on Long Island's 
beautiful North Shore, I am proposing the renaming of the Oyster Bay 
National Wildlife Refuge to the Congressman Lester Wolff National 
Wildlife Refuge.
   These precious wetlands--at Congressman Lester Wolff's urging--were 
protected in 1968.
   Last Congress, the House passed H.R. 6064 with 385 votes in favor. 
In this new Congress, I ask for my colleagues continued support to 
rename to the Lester Wolff National Wildlife Refuge.
   On behalf of the institution he served, and all his colleagues, past 
and present, I wish Lester a happy 100th year and many more.
                          




  Mr. DeSaulnier. Madam Speaker, I rise today to recognize Karen Sakata 
for her dedicated and passionate service to our community.
  A third generation Japanese-American, Karen was born in San Francisco 
and currently lives in Alamo with her husband, Shima. Karen graduated 
from the University of California Berkeley with a Bachelor's degree in 
psychology and received a Master's degree in speech pathology from San 
Jose State University.
  Karen has proudly worked in the education field for the past 44 
years, including 15 years in general education and 26 years in special 
education. Karen has worked as both an administrator and an educator, 
holding positions such as Speech Language Pathologist, Resource 
Specialist-Auditory Processing, Early Childhood Specialist, Program 
Administrator, Elementary Principal, Associate Superintendent, and 
Deputy Superintendent.
  In 2014, Karen was elected to serve as Contra Costa Superintendent of 
Schools. Over the past four years, she created programs for students 
with disabilities and students who are incarcerated or expelled. Her 
``Attendance Awareness Campaign'' strove to improve academic success by 
fighting chronic absence. Karen also initiated the creation of 
resources to help school administrators communicate with employees, 
parents, and students about inclusivity and respect.
  Karen's work as Superintendent was in service of her goal to find and 
build upon the strengths of each individual child. For the past four 
years, she has been a strong and inspiring leader for 177,000 public 
school students and 18 school districts in Contra Costa County. Karen 
Sakata has left a positive impact on Contra Costa County's public 
school system, its students, and the community at large. I am thankful 
for Karen's service and friendship, and I wish her the best in her 
future endeavors.
                          




  Mr. SMUCKER. Madam Speaker, I regret I was unable to vote due to a 
death in the family. Had I been present, I would have voted: NAY on 
Roll Call No. 6; YEA on Roll Call No. 5; NAY on Roll Call No. 4; and 
NAY on Roll Call No. 3.
                          




  Mr. UPTON. Madam Speaker, I was unavoidably detained due to 
collarbone surgery. Had I been present, I would have voted YEA
on Roll Call No. 483; YEA on Roll Call No. 484; YEA on Roll Call No. 
485; YEA on Roll Call No. 486; YEA on Roll Call No. 487; YEA on Roll 
Call No. 488; YEA on Roll Call No. 489; YEA on Roll Call No. 490; YEA 
on Roll Call No. 491; YEA on Roll Call No. 492; YEA on Roll Call No. 
493; YEA on Roll Call No. 494; YEA on Roll Call No. 495; YEA on Roll 
Call No. 496; YEA on Roll Call No. 497; and NAY on Roll Call No. 498.
                          




  Mr. SMUCKER. Madam Speaker, I regret I was unable to vote due to a 
death in the family.
  Had I been present, I would have voted: NAY on Roll Call No. 11; YEA 
on Roll Call No. 10; NAY on Roll Call No. 9; YEA on Roll Call No. 8; 
and NAY on Roll Call No. 7.




  Mr. DEUTCH. Madam Speaker, I am honored to rise today in recognition 
of the important work done by the Rotary Club of Boca Raton and to 
congratulate the recipients of their Outstanding People and Leaders 
(OPAL) awards. This year's honorees are Charles Bender, Rabbi David 
Steinhardt, Aubrey and Sally Struhl, and Art and Glorianne Polacheck. 
In addition, I would like to congratulate the recipients of the Boca 
Raton Rotary Club's Lifetime Legacy Award, Jim and Arlene Sclafani.
  Through their philanthropy, service, and selfless sacrifices, each 
honoree has touched countless lives and made a lasting impact on our 
South Florida community. The work they do and the time they have put in 
is truly deserving of these awards.
  I extend my most sincere congratulations to all of tonight's 
honorees. As we begin this new year, I am confident that the Rotary 
Club of Boca Raton will continue to be a cherished institution in South 
Florida that betters our community. I greatly appreciate the Club's 
work and am pleased to honor their OPAL and Lifetime Legacy Award 
honorees.
                          




  Mr. JEFFRIES. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that when the 
House adjourns today, it adjourn to meet on Tuesday, January 8, 2019, 
when it shall convene at noon for morning-hour debate and 2 p.m. for 
legislative business.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentleman from New York?
  There was no objection.
                          




  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that when the 
Senate completes its business today, it adjourn until 3 p.m., Tuesday, 
January 8; further, that following the prayer and pledge, the morning 
hour be deemed expired, the Journal of proceedings be approved to date, 
the time for the two leaders be reserved for their use later in the 
day, and morning business be closed; further, that following leader 
remarks, the Senate resume consideration of the motion to proceed to S. 
1; finally, that notwithstanding the provisions of rule XXII, the 
cloture motion filed during today's session ripen at 5:30 p.m., 
Tuesday, January 8.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
                          



